[music]
Expectations have definitely crept
higher as we get to this very big week
of earnings.
>> I think the bar is high.
>> The street at this point in time is
essentially looking for double digit
growth.
>> If the MAX 7 can continue to deliver,
that continues to drive a lot of upside.
>> I don't really see this bull market
changing anytime soon. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan [music]
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday at all-time highs, chairp
Federal Reserve beginning its two-day
meeting as tech giant Amazon is
announcing a big round of job cuts and
BMP Parabar the latest bank to say it
suffered a hit from saring debt. That
stock trading lower this morning.
>> Yeah. and it's the worst performer of
all of the European banks [music] at a
time when European banks have been doing
very well. It really kind of
encapsulates the issue. BNP talked about
a specific credit situation [music] that
caused it to post an additional $200
million of uh loan loss reserves aside,
but it goes to something David Sullivan
of Goldman Sachs said. What's [music]
the difference between specific credit
situations and systemic credit problems?
Right now, it is really more of the
former. It has not become the latter and
it won't unless there is a real kind of
weakening [music] in the global economy.
>> David Solomon speaking to Jamaata Baseti
over in the Middle East really
downplaying systemic risk [music] not
credit risk and I think you're right to
draw that massive distinction. The other
thing I'd point out this morning,
[music] most read story on the Bloomberg
terminal today, BMP Parab why just
echoes of 2007, those credit funds being
[music] shuttered back then. Anyone old
enough to remember that that's kind of
the echo [music] the rhyme maybe this
morning, but I think it's a bit of a
stretch to suggest it's the same thing.
>> It does though highlight the fact that
[music] maybe there are some excesses
and one thing that David Sullivan did
say is this is possibly the longest
credit cycle in his life without some
sort of downturn. And it raises a
question, [music] what are we missing?
and the fact that we have seen easy
financial conditions, albeit with very
high rates. But this really speaks to
this question [music] of what froth is
not being really adequately accounted
for.
>> That's the latest on credit. The Federal
Reserve is going to have to talk about
this potentially [music] tomorrow
afternoon in their news conference with
Chairman Pal. Also tracking the latest
events in Tokyo, [music] Japan happening
right now. A sitdown conversation with
the president and several business
leaders including executives from
Salesforce, Honda, Toshiba. We're going
to have a group of executives get
together with the president later on
this morning.
>> This is really part for the course
anytime President Donald [music] Trump
goes out internationally. We saw this in
the Middle East. I saw this when I was
traveling him with the United Kingdom.
[music] He doesn't want to just have
state visits. He wants to make sure he's
bringing business leaders from the
United States alongside and also
interacting with the local business
community. Especially when he's inking
deals with a country like Japan, which
is pledging to fund $550 [music]
billion worth of projects in the United
States. But you look at who's going to
be there. It has to do everything with
AI investment with car [music]
manufacturing as well of course with
defense when you think about andal
industries also being [music] present.
>> They're having a good time, aren't they?
>> Telling the new prime minister, you can
have anything you want. A putter comes
in return. Shinszu based PA. That's a
nice gift. I think that was a brilliant
gift [music] from the Japanese to really
pull on the heartstrings of this
president because he absolutely talks
about all the time how much he adored
[music] Shinszo Abbe and talks about how
he was one of his closest allies and
friends when he was in the White House.
Trump won.
>> In many ways, this was always going to
be the easier meeting on [music] this
trip, the harder meeting two days away.
>> Yeah. But even the easier meeting, where
are the actual words? Where are the
documents of the trade agreement?
[music] Can you solidify that? There was
a lot of nice rhetoric. This is the
question. Can you solidify it into
something else? Especially given that a
lot of details [music] still haven't
been worked out.
>> If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. Three days of gains on the
S&P 500, the biggest 3-day gain since
May. [music] On the S&P, a record high.
On the NASDAQ, a record high. On the
Russell, an all-time high. Equity
futures this morning just about
unchanged. Coming up this hour, Jack
Carfrey of JP Morgan [music] with stocks
of record highs. Henry 11 of CSIS ahead
of US China trade talks and Tony Wang of
Troll Price looking ahead to earnings
from big tech. We begin this hour with
stocks little changed as investors await
key earnings and a Fed interest rate
decision. Jack Caffrey of JP Morgan
writing, "The economy is at an
interesting inflection point. If the Fed
is committed to more liquidity and lower
interest rates, traders have to take
note." Jack joins us now for more. Jack,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's another way of saying don't fight
this. Keep riding it.
>> Don't fight the Fed. And it feels that
the margin, if you look, say at the
Atlanta GDP now survey, you know, the
economy is printing closer to 4%. That's
250 basis points above estimates of
long-term durable growth in the United
States. And now you want to add
liquidity. And now you want to give it a
lower interest rate. So little jet fuel
perhaps onto a robust economy.
>> How do you want to leverage that robust
economy in the equity market?
>> Well, I think there's certainly we've
been living with sort of a bit of a
K-shaped equity market. If you touch AI,
life has been very positive for the last
several years. and we'll get some really
interesting checks on that Wednesday and
Thursday afternoons to see whether we'll
see incremental increases in capital
spending intentions. The industrial
economy, the more traditional US economy
has been operating for effectively in a
2 and 1/2 year near recession or
recessionary like lack of growth. And I
think at some point we need to see that
part of the economy start kicking in. um
[clears throat] whether it's been
housing which I think is going to be a
really tough one when we consider the
the steepness of the curve and the the
still challenging issues with respect to
rates um and that so many people are in
at very low interest rates on their
their first purchase their home
purchase. Uh I do think that we have to
look out for where we can start seeing
some stocks which are underappreciated
that need to participate. Uh the
transports are one where I think people
need to be paying a little bit more
attention. They suffered and they have
certainly moved opposite of the
direction of the the broad economy.
>> There's a lot to unpack there. I'm
curious about the jet fuel and if the
jet fuel is equal across the K-shaped
stock market in addition to the K-shaped
economy, will Fed rate cuts actually
help the broadening out or will it just
provide more jet fuel for the winners
year to date?
>> You know, I think what we have seen,
again, speaking back to the K-shaped,
you know, the beauty of why AI has
worked so well is it's been cash funded
and earnings funded. And these companies
haven't typically been reliant on debt
financing. When you move to the second
or perhaps third tier suppliers of that
story, that is where you have certainly
seen the need to borrow um versus the
more traditional parts of the economy
where they haven't really seen the
growth. And I think that's where you
have certainly seen more use of
leverage. And to come back to where we
were talking or where you were kicking
off the show where credit has been
episodic rather than systemic. I mean
the reality is ultimately systemic only
comes after episodic becomes a very
frequent event not a truly episodic
situation.
>> Are you staying away from tech stocks
that have higher degrees of leverage the
oracles of the world that are borrowing
a lot more?
>> Um I think we are trying to be very
thoughtful around where you start seeing
a company which has historically has had
great margins actually starts announcing
that they have such a bright future
ahead of them that they want to be using
more leverage in order to get there to
satisfy that growth. Certainly when you
look at Oracle, it does at sometimes
appear to look like if you want to play
open AI, that winds up becoming sort of
the clearest expression of open AI in
the broad capital markets, which should
not be construed as a recommendation of
that stock on my part, please, if
compliance is listening. Um, but one
where you do have to come back to, you
know, this has been a hugely profitable
business for long periods of time and
now suddenly they need to borrow a lot
of money. um that leverage greed is
where things get interesting. But when
it's oneoff, it's oneoff. When it's
systemic, then you start worrying.
>> When you look into the earnings that are
set to come out for these AI companies,
how high is the bar?
>> The great thing is US companies are
spectacular at managing their
expectations to levels that they can
wind up beating. And you know, here we
are, call it a week and a half into
earnings and you're looking at 8% upside
on an earnings basis. I do think that
it's really [clears throat] guidance
that matters as you wind up working your
way through. And to the extent you can
announce a seemingly unexpected deal and
get some warrants, have your stock go up
25%, you know, that's not an earnings
comment, but just this market's ability
to be very positively surprised. um
whether it was [snorts] a 12% rally in a
semiconductor maker who is seen as not
being an AI player said wait look at me
I can play this game too uh a 20%
immediate rally and closed up 11 12%. Um
you this is a market that continues
looking for good news and embraces it.
The flip side is bad news you're down
seven or eight%. So there is a lot of
volatility under the surface. Following
the Amazon news yesterday, I was
reminded of a World Economic Forum
survey that talked about how all of
these AI companies are saying how or a
lot of companies are just saying how
we're going to probably have to let go.
Almost half are saying we have to let go
employees because AI is going to take
their jobs. Now, that might be good for
AI equities, but how do you balance that
with how bad that could be for the
economy?
Yeah, the burden of having studied a lot
of history is I try to go back to look
for where I've seen experiences like
that and I recall at some point the
United Auto Workers were facing off
against Ford and Ford talking about
automation and the United Auto Workers
president saying well who will buy your
cars if you fire all of us? So that is
is and remains a constant tension
between a desire for greater efficiency
and a desire for actual customers. Um, I
think that brings us back to can we
start seeing a continuation of the work
that said that you were actually
starting to create a lot more smaller
and newer companies um that actually
wind up being the creators of jobs. The
reality is big companies don't tend to
create a lot of jobs. They tend to look
to things like uh horizontal
integration, horizontal mergers and that
comes with quite synergies which is sort
of a bloodless way of saying job cuts.
Um so let's can we come back to creating
more of an entrepreneurial opportunity
set and that's where you know why people
look at the NFIB surveys you know what
is small business saying reality is NFIB
a tends to move with headlines and b
the problem is small businesses remain
small businesses which is why they don't
have the economic impact you'd think but
it's small businesses that might capture
that new business formation that
actually wind up being the next great
company over the next 10 or 20 years
synergies, right sizing, language I've
never really enjoyed. We've seen a lot
of that over the past few weeks. Not
just Amazon, of course. 14,000 in the
context of a 1.5 million employee
company doesn't sound like a lot. It
isn't, but this is adding up. It's
Amazon, it's Target, it's GM. We've
heard this repeatedly over the last
month.
>> The difference between with Amazon and
GM and some of the others, Target, is
that GM explicitly, excuse me, Amazon
specifically talked about AI and how
much it is going to replace employees.
And is this a welcome thing for
shareholders? Is this not? Is this just
an excuse to try to trim around the
edges because they have expanded, to
your point, so substantially doubling in
size in terms of their staff since the
pandemic, or is this something that
really is the beginning of a stronger
trend?
>> The Federal Reserve doesn't have jobs
data right now, but it's got some
corporate announcements to latch on to,
that's for sure. Jack, it's good to see
you. Thank you, sir.
>> Jack Caffrey of JP Morgan Asset
Management. That two-day Fed meeting
kicking off later on this morning,
concludes tomorrow, of course. That news
conference with Chairman Pal just around
the corner. Let's give you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Let's cross over to Yahara for
more. Hey, Yahihara.
>> Good morning, John. President Donald
Trump praised Japan's new prime
minister, Sane Takichi, in Tokyo as the
signed vague documents on trade and
critical minerals. Trump praised
Takayichi for her plans to increase
defense spending and offered quote
anything you want to the country, which
he said was [music] an ally at the
strongest level. Meanwhile, Goldman
Sachs CEO David Solomon says there is no
systemic crisis happening in credit.
Solomon described recent losses at
regional banks as idiosyncratic events,
adding they serve as a [music] reminder
to stay v vigilant. Wall Street has been
plagued with credit concerns since the
collapse of First Brands andricolor. And
as you all were just discussing, Amazon
is cutting 14,000 jobs from its overall
corporate workforce. The online retail
giant [music] said it would offer most
employees a 90-day internal job search
window. [music] It also said that while
it is cutting jobs in some areas, it
will continue hiring [music] in other
key strategic areas. Its workforce as of
June was over 1 and a.5 million strong.
[music] That's more brief. John Yhara,
thank you. More from Yihara in about 30
minutes time. Up next on a program,
striking a deal with Japan.
>> This will be a relationship that will be
stronger than ever before. Anything I
can do to help Japan, we will be there.
We are an ally at the strongest level.
>> That conversation [music] up next with
the former White House China adviser
Henrietta Levvin from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[music]
There really is something for everybody
this week. Tech earnings. You'll hear
from Nvidia CEO Jensen Wang. If you miss
him, you'll hear from him later this
afternoon at 12:00 p.m. [music] noon
time. And then, of course, the Federal
Reserve decision happening tomorrow
afternoon and Chairman Pal news
conference. Look out for that full
coverage right here. Special programming
of Bloomberg surveillance, of course.
Then the trade focus really ramps up.
The president sitting down with the
Chinese leader on Thursday. Let's talk
about trade and surveillance this
morning striking [music] a deal with
Japan.
>> This will be a relationship that will be
stronger than ever before. And I look
forward to working with you. And on
behalf of our country, I want to just
let you know anytime you have any
question, any doubt, anything you want,
any favors you need, anything I can do
to help Japan, we will be there. We are
an ally at the strongest level.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
President Trump and Japan's Prime
Minister Taki signing agreements on
critical minerals and trade ahead of his
face-to-face meeting with Chinese leader
Xi Jinping on Thursday. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall joins us now live from
Tokyo. Tyler, some very, very warm kind
words from the US leader to the newly
minted Japanese prime minister. Do you
expect a repeat of that on Thursday?
>> Hey John, good morning. No, this was
clearly going to be the easier meetings
of the two set up for this week. Though,
President Trump also has a meeting with
the South Korean prime minister uh
president later this week as we know
that there are still some key details to
be ironed out there. But it is clear
that the White House is trying to use
the series of meetings uh ahead of
Thursday's event to try to gain as much
leverage as possible as President Trump
really piled on the praise for the new
Japanese Prime Minister Takahuchi here
in Tokyo earlier today. Now, the new
prime minister only had a matter of days
in office in order to prepare for this.
But it is clear that a series of steps
ahead of time perhaps set her up for
success. That includes Japan announcing
that it's accelerating its target date
to boost its military spending to GDP,
something President Trump applauded, but
also said uh that he heard from the
prime minister directly that they're
going to start to boost their imports of
US military supplies. It was just a
series of headlines that we got today
designed to bolster the USJapanese
alliance but also apparently counter
China. You mentioned how they signed
this deal when it comes to critical
minerals. They also signed a memorandum
of understanding on ship building as
China accounts for more than a third of
total global fleets. Now, those de uh
deals are a little short on details, but
we did get perhaps the most details to
date when it comes to Japan's pledged
$550 billion investment uh fund seen as
absolutely critical for the country
securing that more preferential 15%
tariff rate. Today, John, the Japanese
government released its first list of
potential projects that could come from
that fund. They are all in these
critical sectors that the US has deemed
uh absolutely essential when it comes to
competition with China. The corporate
names on that list include Soft Bank,
Westinghouse, and also Toshiba as
President Trump is really just moments
away from meeting with business leaders
for a reception here in Tokyo tonight.
>> Tala Kendall with the latest in Tokyo,
Japan. Tyler, thank you. Looking out for
that business meeting a little bit later
this morning. We'll keep tracking that
for you. This is the easier one. We've
said that a few times. It's also a
delicate dance to demonstrate that you
want to bring rare earths and rare earth
production to back home back home
onshore domestically and then boost
production with your allies as well at
the same time derisk from China and come
to an agreement with the Chinese on
Thursday. That's a difficult delicate
dance.
>> It is difficult but it's why it's in
this sequence. He had to go visit all
the allies first and then end with China
and Xi Jinping because he's going in
with a lot more momentum and a lot to
show for as a show of force really how
the United States is in this region
bolstering what China is doing not just
when it comes to rare earths but also
showing united front when it comes to
defense.
>> Let's talk about China. This is from the
former White House China adviser
Henrietta Levven writing the following.
China is confident it has the upper hand
in this trade war and it would still be
hesitant to make concessions without
getting much more in return. We should
assume China's commitments are
temporary. Henrietta joins us now for
more. Henrietta, welcome to the program.
Do you believe that both sides are
sufficiently incentivized to come to a
deal on Thursday?
I do think that both sides are seeking
an extended period of stability in the
relationship. on whose terms remains an
open question. And Xiinping is
incredibly confident walking into this
meeting with Donald Trump that he has
the upper hand, having successfully
wielded China's uh choke points on rare
earth exports to get the US to back down
from high levels of tariffs quite a few
times over the course of this year. Um
but nonetheless I do take heart in the
fact that at least coming out of these
trade talks over the weekend setting up
the leaders engagement um the meeting uh
with Hifang and the US counterparts at
least both sides are describing what
they have agreed in similar terms. Both
sides are saying there is a consensus
framework that the leaders are now
reviewing. Um, and this is not generally
the case. When US and Chinese
negotiators have met to discuss trade
issues over the past uh few months, it
often seems like they're talking about
totally different conversations. And so
this suggests that there is finally
enough of a common understanding to at
least start to unwind some of these
retaliatory measures that have
characterized the past few months of the
USChina relationship.
>> Henry, I love that you end there,
unwinding the retaliatory measures. At
the end of the day, aren't we just back
to exactly where this relationship was
in Geneva in May?
>> Um, yes, but slightly worse from the US
[laughter]
position. Um we do see the elements of
this potential framework really focused
on managing the fallout of the trade war
rather than addressing the structural
economic imbalances
um in China's model of growth causing
such significant economic challenges not
just for the US economy but for the
broader global community. We're not
seeing those issues addressed. We're
seeing um commitments for China for
example to resume soybean purchases from
US farmers. um which is those purchases
were only withdrawn in the first place
in the context of the trade war. We're
seeing China potentially commit to delay
implementation, not revoke, but at least
delay implementation of sweeping new
rare earth export controls in which
China would effectively be claiming
authority over huge swaths of the global
economy. Um they also impose those
regulations as part of the trade war. So
this really is more about managing the
fallout of this very aggressive approach
to USChina relations rather than
breaking new ground.
>> When we have this aboutyear delay when
it comes to the advancement of these
export restrictions on rare earths, what
do you expect both sides to do in that
year?
Um, it's a great question and first of
all, I wouldn't necessarily assume that
if China says we have a year before this
is implemented, I wouldn't assume that's
what's going to happen. I I think that
any commitment China makes, whether it's
purchasing agricultural products or
delaying these rare earth regulations,
it's dependent on the US uh maintaining
what China likes to call positive
atmosphere. So basically doing nothing
that China would find irritating. Um,
and honestly, it's quite unlikely that
we'll see that play out. So, even if um,
this is an opportunity for near-term
stability. I wouldn't bet on China
actually in a consistent expeditious
fashion giving US producers the rare
earths they need um, over the course of
the next year. But, um, I think it does
at least provide some breathing room for
Washington and its allies to focus on a
real collective project of
diversification. This is not a problem
the US can solve on its own. And you
even saw that in some of the other trade
deals that Donald Trump struck um over
the course of his Asia trip with
Malaysia, for example, which is itself
uh an important um producer of rare
earth materials. Um there is a segment
of their trade framework that attempts
to bolster a US access to these rare
earths from suppliers that are less
reliant on China. Um and the US will
have to turbocharge that effort over the
next year if it's going to make a dent
in China's choke holds on these global
supply chains.
>> Henrietta, how much has the sort of a
discussion between the US and China
affected a changing in the attitude that
the US seems to have toward Southeast
Asia, toward Malaysia, toward the
Philippines, toward Taiwan, toward uh
Vietnam and Thailand? I mean, do you get
the sense that there is some sort of
softening in some of the terms because
of this sort of trilateral effect trying
to get some of the resources that the US
needs getting more leverage into these
meetings?
And I I do and and I think one area that
traditionally Beijing and Washington
have agreed on for better or worse is
that the US network of alliances uh
especially in Asia but around the world
is a fundamental source of American
strength and staying power and ability
to compete effectively with China over
the long term. And so this is important
because Beijing, as I mentioned, is
feeling really confident. They feel like
they've gotten the US to back down. they
feel like they don't have to give
anything in these negotiations. But as
the US starts to rebuild um some of
these partnerships focused on critical
minerals, also other areas of the
relationship, um for example, President
Trump's very warm meeting with the new
Japanese prime minister. All of that I
think raises really useful questions in
Beijing about maybe the US is actually
playing a stronger hand than Beijing had
originally bet on. um because these
problems are just so significant. The
scale of China's production capacity is
so significant that there's just no
solution to issues like rare earths um
without the US partnering closely with
its friends around the world.
>> Henrieta appreciate it. Thanks for being
us being here with us. Henry Devin there
of CSIS. It is 7:25 in Tokyo, Japan. The
president is about to sit down for a
dinner with executives from Salesforce,
OpenAI, Toshiba, and Honda. the commerce
secretary just wrapping up speaking.
We're going to hear from the president
very shortly and when he begins to
address that room, we'll take those
comments live.
>> So, we just heard from Howard Lutnik.
He's talking about all these deals that
have been driven by this relationship is
strategic investment initiative and he's
talking [music] about things in nuclear
semiconductors and energy critical for
the United States especially as they
[music] go into this meeting with Xi
Jinping.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with John Lieieber of Eurasia Group as
the government shutdown nears its fifth
week. Plus, Danny has your morning
movers. UPS jumping on an earnings beat
from New York City this morning. You're
watching Limbo TV.
The oven about 3 hours away. Equity
futures on the S&P just about unchanged.
All-time highs with some movers before
the opening bell. Here's Danny with
more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. A lot going on this morning.
Start out with a lot of nuclear deals.
One from the US government, one from
Google, the one for the US government,
$8 billion from a company owned by
Kamekco and Brookfield, that's
Westinghouse to again invest $8 billion
into nuclear and AI infrastructure. So
KCO up nearly 12%. Next era, that was a
deal with Google to restart one of their
nuclear projects to provide them energy.
So those shares are [music] up 3%.
Meanwhile, some earnings to get through
just in the past 30 minutes. United
Health a beat and a race. some
confidence that finally this company
that has been struggling can turn things
around. It's had issues uh from seauite
drama to a tragic shooting of one of its
[music] uh branches alongside higher
higher costs for pharmaceuticals. So
those shares up 3.3%. Meanwhile also UPS
earnings another positive one and you
can just see how much the street was
surprised by how positive they were. It
was a beat for them. [music] Shares up
15.8% 8% because UPS has been dogged by
woes of higher tears, higher cost,
meaning customers have been pulling
back. They've rerouted their networks.
Clearly, that has worked. FedEx also
rising in sympathy. Those shares up
three [music] and a half%. John
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate it. Let's
head back over to Tokyo, Japan, awaiting
comments from the president of the
United States. Let's listen in.
[applause]
Those
comments just wrapping up in Tokyo,
Japan. The president about to sit down
for a meal with business executives in
the Japanese capital. Executives from
Salesforce, OpenAI, Toshiba, and from
Honda.
>> He's rarely that brief in his remarks,
but he's talking about how he finds that
the US stock market on this record the
same way the Japanese stock market has
been on a tear. So he's really relishing
in the fact that as he meets in front of
these business leaders, the close ties
he has with this country, they are
announcing a ton of investments. And
that's what you saw Howard Lutnik, the
commerce secretary there, take these
photos, bring up these CEOs who are
investing billions of dollars into the
United States. And what the
administration is saying is that this is
all created by the tariff policy that
they have been working on for the past
few months.
>> We'll continue tracking this trip in the
Japanese capital. Of course, the next
leg of things really kicks off a meeting
with the Japanese leader. You're going
to hear from the president later on. And
then onto Thursday, onto Thursday when
the US leader is sitting down with the
Chinese leader as well. On our radar
this morning to wrap things up in Japan,
the president meeting with the new
Japanese Prime Minister Sai Takichi,
praising her plans to boost defense
spending and offering her anything you
want to strengthen diplomatic ties.
Elsewhere, BMP Paraba falling after
taking a $ 1.05 05 billion hit from loan
losses in what the bank is calling a
specific credit situation. Meanwhile,
Goldman Sach CEO David Solomon
downplaying the credit concerns, saying
he sees no systemic risk in the market.
And finally, Amazon announcing a major
reduction of 14,000 corporate roles,
giving most impacted employees 90 days
to seek a new internal position. Amazon
will continue hiring in key strategic
growth areas, particularly those focused
on AI. That's the latest on our radar
this morning. Turning to politics, Vice
President JD Vance reportedly expected
to meet with Senate Republicans on
Capitol Hill later today as the
government shutdown nears its fifth
week. John Lieieber of Eurasia Group
joins us now for more. John, welcome.
Sir, we had a guest on a program that
said maybe you've got to wait until the
end of November. What are you looking at
the calendar that suggests it might come
sooner?
>> Yeah, there's a couple deadlines coming
up that I think are going to start
putting a lot more pressure on Democrats
in particular in the Senate in order to
end the shutdown. And the biggest one is
uh SNAP dispersements. So food stamps,
uh people are going to start missing
payments for food stamps, which means
they aren't going to be able to use the
program to buy food for their families.
And I think that's going to be a
pressure point that starts to really
increase and ratchet up pressure on
Democrats to end this because, you know,
as we've discussed before, I think that
there are policy losses here that
Democrats really care about and those
policy losses start mounting as time
goes on. Um, so by the first end of the
first week of November, you're going to
start to see some real pain uh from the
government shutdown that you just
haven't seen to date. There's already
talk about air traffic control uh
controllers starting to miss paychecks
and starting to um uh uh be hurt by this
and those costs just keep going up. For
what benefit? There doesn't seem to be
much benefit coming out of this
shutdown. And I don't think that dynamic
the benefits really change over time,
but the costs certainly go up.
>> But John, what's the strategy? Will
Democrats open decide to vote to reopen
the government or are they going to do
these rifle shop bills, these one-off
funding bills to say pay essential
workers or give the money needed for
SNAP?
>> They'd like to do the rival shots and
some Republicans like that approach as
well, but I think that this is really
all about healthcare and that's how
where the Democrats have hung their hat
in this shutdown and that's the issue
that's going to help them give them the
cover to resolve it. So, I I don't
expect you'd see any of these narrow
bills that reopen parts of the
government pass. I think that most
Republicans recognize um that's a losing
strategy for them or believe that's a
losing strategy for them. Uh Senator
John Thun was out saying something like
that last night even though he
previously endorsed the idea. And I
think that the Democrats are dug in
here. They have a strategy. They say
this is about healthcare. They say this
is about restoring some of the cuts to
the government. And that's ultimately
going to be their path out. Um, but they
need, you know, I don't think they're
going to get a deal done by the end of
this. They'll probably get some promises
to get a deal done and then they'll
reopen the government within, you know,
the next, call it, uh, 7 to 14 days.
>> Some key elections we have next week,
mayor race in New York, governor races
in New Jersey, Virginia, then you have
uh, Proposition 50 on the ballot in
California. Do these affect the
government shutdown?
>> They could if Republicans overperform
because it suggests the Democrats are in
a weaker position. Uh the Democrats
should do well in these elections. These
are off-year elections in New uh New
Jersey and uh Virginia, which are
typically considered referendums on the
party in power. Dem those are blue
states. The Democrats should do well. If
they do less well than anticipated, that
I think would weaken the Democratic
position on Capitol Hill. It'll send
them a message that politically they're
weaker than they thought and they need
to try a new tactic. If they overperform
and do quite well, then it gives them
some tailwind and tells them that their
tactics are working, that they're
actually weakening the Republicans and
they're weakening Donald Trump. And if
that's the case, then I would expect
they would dig in a little bit more.
>> John, how do you pair the sort of split
screen of Washington DC shut down at the
same time that President Trump is doing
international diplomacy? How connected
and how much does that resonate
domestically with some of the deals that
are being struck in places like Malaysia
and Japan?
Yeah, it's notable because they really
don't seem at all connected. It's like
Trump's living in a totally different
world um and playing a totally different
game than the Democrats are. And he
continues to kind of create his own
reality this way by just going about
business as normal. He's knocking down
the East Wing. He's uh doing business
deals in Japan. Uh you know, he he
claims he solved another war while he
was overseas. And so he's just doing his
thing. And it's almost as if the
government doesn't the government
shutdown doesn't matter to him at all.
And I think that's a telling sign of the
Democrat's weakness here because I don't
think Trump cares all that much. And I
think that the American people are used
to this level of noise and chaos coming
out of the Trump administration. And so
therefore, government shutdowns just
don't mean what they used to. And it's a
lot harder to get political leverage and
make Republicans feel political pain
from this shutdown. To that point, John,
I mean, are we seeing anything in the
polls that are seeing uh that are are
are speaking to this blowback by popular
opinion to Republicans, or is it
essentially just anger at Washington DC
for perpetual dysfunction?
>> Yeah, as far as I can tell, there's been
a mild softening of Donald Trump's
approval ratings, but I I think, you
know, again, he's playing by a different
set of rules, and I I just don't think
this affects him all that much. The last
poll I looked at on this suggests both
sides are affecting are seeing their
approval ratings go down. But, you know,
again, this doesn't matter politically.
I think in 12 months, we'll be fighting
over something else and the government
shutdown's going to be in the distant
rearview mirror, and it won't matter at
all electorally. Um, it'll just be a
weird historical oddity that we had this
long shutdown.
>> John, when we look to what else we have
to wait that potentially impact policy
coming out directly from the Trump
administration, the tariff policy, how
are you preparing your clients for the
Supreme Court decision on AIPA?
Yeah, the AIPA decision is one of the
more important catalysts on the
calendar. Um, as far as I can tell,
there's no legal consensus around this
thing and we've heard all manners of
opinions about what the court the court
might do from the court will adopt the
lower court's argument and strike this
down to a court is like the court is
likely to affirm the president's
executive powers to somewhere in between
where the court could strike down some
aspects of this. It could leave in place
other aspects of this. Uh, we've heard
if the court does strike this down, it
may not issue refunds. it may force the
refunds to go through lower courts. So,
I think there's no legal consensus. I
think for our clients, what we're
telling them is that uh you know, the
Supreme Court has tried to minimize
disruptions to business activity and
that's what we'd expect no matter what
they decide, which means we think
refunds are probably e unlikely to be
granted by the Supreme Court, but
allowed to be petitioned through the
lower courts, which means they will be
time consuming. And uh we also think
that if the tariffs are struck down, the
administration has ample other tools to
rebuild at least part or most of this
tariff wall through section 122 uh of a
separate trade act, which allows them to
put in place uh 15% tariffs universally
for 150 days, which they can do while
they start to do separate 301
investigations into unfair trade
practices. you need that over time they
can reassemble the tariff wall against
China against Japan against Vietnam
against the US's larger trading
partners. They're not going to get to,
you know, the SE shells and other
countries that are paying tariffs that
don't matter right now. But all the US's
big trading partners are going to face
eventually uh this new tariff wall. I
think the Trump administration is
behaving in a way that suggests they
aren't that concerned about this court
case. And I'm not exactly sure how to
interpret that. you know, these I I
don't see how slapping a 10% tariff on
Canada because you didn't like an ad
that the Ontario premiere put on during
the World Series uh equates to an
international economic emergency. So, it
does look like the administration is is
making this very difficult for the court
to uphold their usage of this law. And
to me, that suggests they're probably
going to strike down broad parts of
this.
>> John, appreciate it. A notable last
point there, John Lieieber of Eurasia
Group. Two notable developments in the
tech world as well. So, let's start with
the first one. PayPal and OpenAI coming
to some kind of payments partnership.
That stock is up big time in a
pre-market high by 13%. That's the first
note. The second one on that dinner with
the president in Tokyo, Japan, a notable
attendee, Apple's Tim Cook arriving at
that dinner as well. That one
unexpected,
>> unexpected and also immediately comes to
mind is that Tim Cook has what? Learned
his lesson on how to deal with the Trump
administration. I was with the president
in the Middle East and and every single
speech he gave, he would point to his
quote unquote friend in the audience,
Jensen Wang, and said another friend of
mine, Tim Cook, where is he? He didn't
show up. Then Tim Cook clearly got the
message and he went to the UK visit and
there he is sitting with the president
now in Japan.
>> Live pictures from Tokyo, Japan. More on
that story a little bit later this
morning with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. [music] Mexican President
Claudia Shambomb says the US is
extending a deadline to reach a trade
deal by several weeks. Shime says both
she and President Trump agreed to extend
[music] talks to give both nations more
time to reach an agreement on non-tariff
trade barriers. Trump earlier set a
November 1st deadline to [music] raise
tariffs on certain Mexican goods from 25
to 30%.
Meanwhile, the US government shutdown is
in its 28th day with no end in [music]
sight. Democrats rejected a call from
the country's biggest federal workers
union to go along with Republicans
[music]
demand for a clean short-term spending
bill. Most federal workers missed their
first full paycheck last Friday.
Shutdown is [music] the second longest
in US history. And Hurricane Melissa is
heading toward Jamaica as a powerful
category 5 storm, the island's worst
storm ever. The US National Hurricane
Center said Melissa's winds are likely
to cause quote [music] total structural
failure. Jamaica's prime minister said
residents in floodprone areas should be
prepared to flee given the high risk of
complete display displacement and
[music] loss of life. Dutch Bloomberg
brief John
>> Yhara thank you appreciate it. More from
Yhara in about 30 minutes time. Up
[music] next on the program 7 momentum.
>> I mean the earnings season so far has
been amazing right 87% of bees. We're
running at 10% growth year [music] on
year. I think if the Mac 7 can continue
to deliver um that continues to drive a
lot of upside. A big two days coming up
for earnings Wednesday and [music]
Thursday. We'll get you a preview with
Tony Wang of T-Roll Price live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
You're watching Bloomberg [music] TV.
[music]
Difficult to track events in Tokyo,
Japan. But here's the latest. The
president has stepped up to the podium
[music] and now we can take a listen.
Let's take a listen to the president of
the United States.
>> Amazing room of people tremendously
successful, great businessmen, beyond
business. Really, most of you are really
beyond business. So, it's an honor to be
with you. We had a long day, a long
couple of days. Uh we were in Malaysia.
We're celebrating a great uh end to a
war that could have happened. It was a
big deal. I won't I won't bore you with
the facts, but we we ended eight wars in
8 months. And uh I think there's another
one coming. I thought the one coming was
a lot easier than the Middle East. We
did great with the Middle East, but with
uh Russia, I thought that was going to
be an easy one, Ukraine, Russia, because
of the relationship with President
Putin. But that didn't work out too well
so far. But it will. We'll get it done,
too. But it'll be uh that'll be number
nine. I think that's just about it.
Anyone starts, I think, generally
speaking, I'll end it. Otherwise, a lot
of people die, and we don't like that.
But I want to thank our outstanding
ambassador, George Glass, who you just
heard from. Thank you, George.
[applause]
And his wife, Mary. Mary, thank you very
much. Great, great job. This is such a
great pe group of people that you put
together. I'll be meeting with uh
President Xi the day after tomorrow. I'm
going to uh a wonderful place where I
think a lot of you may be going. Uh
we're going to be meeting tomorrow at a
very fantastic meeting. Who's going
tomorrow? Is anybody going that I know
in this room? I think a lot. Tim, are
you going? Maybe you're not. You mean
you came here for this
>> and you're just going back just like
that? Huh? But we'll go be going to
South Korea and then u on the following
day a meeting with PresidentQi as you
probably heard. I'd be surprised if
anybody didn't hear. That's a big big
meeting and I think it's going to work
out very well actually. I think it's
going to be great for everybody.
But I also want to recognize people that
have been doing a fantastic job. Uh our
cabinet, we have a lot of members here
tonight. Secretary of State Marco Rubio.
Where are you, Marco? Stand up, Marco.
[applause]
Thank you. Great job. Doing a great job.
They're all doing a great job. Secretary
of War. You know what used to be
Secretary of Defense, Secretary of War,
[applause]
Pete Hack.
Thank you, Pete. [applause]
You know, we used to be Secretary of
War. It used to be the Department of
War. And then we became politically
correct. We won World War I. We won
World War II. We won everything in
between and everything in front of it.
And then we'd win wars, but we'd leave
after we won. We'd go into wars that we
shouldn't have been in, but then we'd
just leave. We'd bomb the hell out of
somebody and we'd leave. And uh I said,
"You know what? What do you think of
that idea?" Pete said, "I like it." He
said, "Boy, that didn't take long."
Right, Pete? But he's doing a great job.
He's doing a great job on the border,
too. You see what's happening? And uh we
had drugs coming in, a lot of them
coming in by sea. There aren't too many
coming in by sea anymore. They've
decided to take a pass. I don't know if
you've seen what's happening, but u it's
really been amazing what's been
happening in terms of our border. We
have a border that's totally closed. We
used to have a border that was totally
open. We took in 25 million people. Many
of them should never have been there.
And uh they came from prisons, jails,
they came from mental institutions.
insane asylums. Some people say, "How
come you mention both?" I said, "Well,
the insane asylum is a mental
institution on steroids
and it's beyond the me mental
institution." But we took them both. And
we took drug dealers. We took everybody.
What a disgrace. What a disgraceful job
they did the previous administration.
And I wouldn't normally say that, but
what they did to our country was
incredible. And now, you know, we had a
country was a dead country. Everybody,
so many of the leaders that I've met,
King of Saudi Arabia told me very, they
all said essentially, "We thought your
country was dead. One year ago, we
thought your country was dead. Now it's
the hottest country anywhere in the
world." Like by far. I mean, we have
some leaders here. So, I don't want to
insult anybody. We have the hottest
country in the world. So, I just want to
thank some of these people. Scott
Bessett, you're doing a great job.
Secretary of Treasury. Thank you, Scott.
Thank you, Scott. Great. [applause]
How good is he on television? You know,
he soothes the markets. I don't soothes
the market. I sometimes disturb the
markets. He soothes the markets. He
goes, I say, "Scott, go in and clean it
all up for me, Scott." And he goes in
bup. And he's really terrific. He's done
a great job. And I'm thinking about him
for the Fed.
See, now the camera's going breaking
news. But he won't take the job. He
likes being Treasury, so we're not
thinking about him really. Oh, yeah. But
uh he's we're very proud of the job
you're doing. Secretary of Commerce
Howard Lutnik. Thank you, Howard.
[applause]
We just did I guess it's about 518
billion in the other room. We were a
little bit short of 500 and then we had
a couple of people that just announced
including uh Toyota 10 billion going to
open new car plants throughout the
United States. A lot of them and uh it's
great because of the tariffs and because
of the November 5th election, I think
both. But the tariffs have been
tremendously helpful in terms of
national security, the national security
for our country. And a lot of the uh a
lot of the wars that I stopped were
because of tariffs and be frankly I did
a great service to the world but because
of tariffs because of trade. If you look
at uh India and Pakistan
they were going at it. Seven planes were
shot down. Seven brand new beautiful
planes were shot down and they were
going at it. Two big nuclear powers. And
I said to Prime Minister Modi, and I
said to the prime minister, a very nice
man, a very good man, and the field
marshal over in Pakistan, I said, "Look,
we're not going to do any trade if
you're going to be fight." No, no, no.
One thing has nothing to do with the
other. I said, "It has a lot to do with
the other. Two nuclear powers. We get
that nuclear dust all over the place.
All of you are affected." And we said,
"No, we're not doing any deals
if you're going to fight." And within
about 24 hours that was the end of that.
It was amazing actually. And we've done
numerous like that. I would say trade is
responsible for 70% of the fact that we
didn't have wars by using our heads
because they want to trade with the
United States. But I said we're not
going to trade if you're going to go to
war. And it's amazing how quickly they
were able to make deals. And you know
they would have been fighting for 10
years killing millions of people,
numerous of them. So we're very happy
about that. But I also want to say that
US trade representative
Jameson Greer is like he's really f
where is he? He leaves everybody happy.
[applause]
He does everybody you know they have
such confidence in him. Even the other
side I mean you have to have both sides
have confidence especially when it comes
to trade between countries. But Jameson
you're doing a great job. Thank you very
much. Really appreciate it. [applause]
And we had a phenomenal day here in
Japan with a momentous trade deal. We
made a big big beautiful trade deal for
both countries. In fact, to the best of
my knowledge, I think Japan also had
their best stock market day ever. So,
your new prime minister is doing very
well. First female, first woman prime
minister. And I said, you already hit
the highest stock price you've ever hit.
So, she's very happy. and we spent the
whole day together. It was beautiful.
And she's she's great. We went out to
the George USS George Washington, the SS
George Washington. It was uh it was
really great. This the uh the sailors
and a lot of others. We had a lot of
people, a lot of military people were
there, but boy, there was some scene. It
was incredible. You wouldn't believe
that a ship could hold that many people.
But I just want to uh say that she is a
delight and she's going to be I think
she's going to be a great prime
minister. Really do. I've got to know
her pretty well in a short period of
time. She was a very good friend and
ally of Shinszo Abi who was a friend of
mine. one of my best friends in terms of
this world, the world of nations and uh
he was a great man and he got
unfortunately what happened to him was
sad, very sad but uh he was a great
leader and uh we we miss him very much
but a fantastic tribute to the US
Japanese alliance uh aboard that ship
today. USS think of it USS George
Washington. It's the only ship that just
doesn't come back to the United States.
It stays here and it's very proud. This
is our largest military contingent. Uh
Pete, I think like 66,000
soldiers, Navy and others. So this was a
fantastic day. The the level of
excitement and enthusiasm. It's so easy.
People say, "How do you speak in front
of that many people and enjoy it?" When
you have so much love, there's such
love. There was such love on that ship.
It's really easy to do. They don't
understand that it's easy to do. But
tonight, I'm more confident than ever
that the friendship between the United
States and Japan is strong, as strong as
it can be, and it's thriving. It's
prosperous, and it'll soon be, I think,
greater than ever before. And we had
four great years. You know, we had the
greatest economy in the history of our
country, but we're blowing it away this
time, to be honest with you. We're
blowing that was we had four great
years. Uh, as you know, we had the
one-year deduction little I call it the
one-year little deduction like you can
deduct every single thing. Nobody ever
thought that was possible. That beats 38
years, right? But now we did it for a
period of 10 years instead of period of
one year. It's much stronger. It's and
you can deduct structures and and for
the people you have no tax on tips, no
tax on social security. Think of it, no
tax on overtime for your workers. and it
really covers everything. The great big
beautiful bill. Um, we got everything
done. I said, "Let's get it all done." A
lot of people want to do it little small
pieces, like nine of them, 12 of them. I
said, "Put it all into one bill, and if
we get it done, we're done for four
years. We don't need anything more from
Congress in terms of that, right, Scott?
We got it all done." It was a little
risky, but because if we didn't get it
done, I don't know, who knows what would
have happened with these radical left
lunatics that we have to deal with. But
uh we got it all done and now we're
we're set and you're set. The investment
in this country is set. You have all
that you want. The people in uh this
room are the living embodiment of the
USJapanese economic partnership that
together we're taking to even greater
heights. It will I think never be like
it is now, but it'll get even better if
that's possible. I especially want to
thank Japanese company Soft Bank. I
think Masa is here. Where's Masa? Yeah,
I played golf with this guy last week.
He sank every putt. Every putt.
[applause] We played with Bryson
Dshambo. We had a great match. And the
great Gary Player, Gary Player's 90
years old and he shot 70. Is that right?
>> And we
>> That's right. We won the tournament.
>> We had 36 teams and we won the
tournament. And we didn't cheat either.
You know, a lot of a lot of those teams
cheated because I know how they play and
they did not shoot those scores.
But I think we we got well it helped to
have Bryson hitting a ball 400 yards.
You know, it's always nice to have I
said I'll take Bryson on our team, but
we had a we had a great time and you
played great and you put it very well
and I appreciate it because I now have
an extra trophy on my desk and I like
that. Yes, please.
>> Four
Eagles.
>> That's right. Four eagles.
>> Four eagles. We made four eagles. And uh
no, I seriously mean he every time he
stood over a putt. I'm not saying it's
going to happen every time, but it
happened this time and he's being being
and we didn't have to putt because we're
playing basketball, so we didn't have to
putt. So, thank you very much, Masa.
That's better than all the deals you
made. That made him feel better than all
the deals he's made. Thank you. It's
great to be We'll do it again. But I
also want to thank Toyota for that great
uh it's not a contribution, it's an
investment. We're uh we're having
investments in the in our country
greater than ever before. Greater than
any country has ever had. Actually,
we'll talk about that. And I also want
to thank the people from Carrier here
someplace. Where's Carrier? They were
here. Just thank you. Thank you very
much. They made a big contribution also
to the White House fund. We're redoing
lots of things in the White House. We're
bringing it up to to uh the way it
should be. And you probably heard, I
don't know if anybody heard about we're
building a little ballroom over there.
People are loving it. Now they're loving
it. Took them a little while to
understand what was going on, but now we
actually got an editorial from the
Washington Post and from the New York
Times saying, "Got to build that
ballroom." I almost I couldn't believe
it when that happened. Look, they're
back there right now. They can't believe
I'm saying good things about them. But
it's been great. But I want to thank
Carrier. They make great air
conditioning, heating, and things. and
they were very generous. It's really
fantastic what they did. And with the
help of many of you here tonight, almost
all of you, the only people that haven't
done anything snuck into the room
because I think you're all here because
of what you've done. And so if there's
anybody that hasn't done anything,
please raise your hand and we'll throw
you the hell out of here. Okay?
But Japan is already America's sixth
largest trading partner. And I think as
of today, that's that's gone up probably
two notches. and the number one source
of foreign direct investment. And so
they're very happy because uh you know
as goes our market so many countries
they invest in the United States but
we've never had anything quite like
what's happening and I think it's going
to get better. I can say it now. Uh, so
we have over 17 trillion dollars of
investment in 8 months and I think by
the time we go to the 12-month period,
we'll have over 20 or 21 trillion
invested uh or to be invested very
importantly. I mean, the money's coming
in and a lot of its commitments that are
incredible. Tim Cook is doing, I think,
like 600 or 650 billion dollars, right?
Think of it. You've done more than the
entire group here. We raised 518 billion
and you there's one man sitting here at
650 but good and everything's they're
treating you great, right? We give them
fast permits. We give everybody fast
permits. No more waiting 20 years before
you get rejected. You know that used to
have a process. I I know a couple of
people. They started a process when they
were young men. Now they're old men and
they got rejected. Can you imagine? They
devoted their whole life to getting a
couple of permits. Uh, one of the things
I did that's really helping AI because
of the massive amount of electricity
that they need is I said you build your
own power plant if you'd like. So far
everybody said we like but at first they
weren't doing it. I said I wonder why
because they didn't believe me. They
didn't believe they were actually
getting this. You know we have a grid
that's like a lot of grids are it's old
and nobody ever said that we're going to
be you know doubling. You have to double
or triple the amount of electricity that
we current have as as an example in the
United States. You have to triple it,
but double it at a minimum, but really
triple it in order to take care of just
AI. Can you believe this? More than
double what we have currently. So for
all of that, we have to more than double
it. And they said, well, that's not, you
know, something you can do from the
grid. I mean, how would you do that? you
have an old grid and it's doing okay.
We're fixing it, but you can't do that.
And I came up with the idea that you're
building a plant. They're spending $50
billion to build a plant. I said, you
can build your own electric generating
sources. And honestly, some of the
people in this room, they've they're
building electric generators that are so
far beyond anything that's ever been
built before. They're using all
different types of fuel. They're using
nuclear. They're using oil and gas.
They're using coal as a backup. Coal is
a great backup. If something happens,
you can put it aside and if you ever
need it, you can you can use it. But,
uh, it's a great thing there. And we're
getting you very fast approvals. Lee
Zeldon's doing a fantastic job. We're
giving you fast approvals. You don't
have to wait, you know, nine years. You
You're waiting a matter of weeks.
Literally a matter of weeks. You're
coming in with the best engineers in the
world. You know what you're doing. And
so as you build your plant, you're sort
of in the utility business like Con
Edison in New York. You're building your
own electric and uh you can build it as
much as you want and if you have any
leftover, you send it, you sell it into
the grid. So our grid picks up a lot of
electric without really us doing
anything. You talk about private sector,
that's the ultimate, but everybody loves
it. And they're they're coming honestly
I mean somebody that understands that
better than information which is what
the other part part makes. You're going
to make a lot of money with information
and uh but somebody that really does
understand the generation of
electricity.
The kind of plants that are being built
are unbelievable. They're far beyond
anything being built in terms of your
regular utility companies which you know
it's sort of an older business. So I
congratulate you. But the beauty is that
you start building immediately. Tim, you
don't have to wait, you know, well, if
we went by the grid 10, 12, 15 years,
but the permits are fast and it's you
open as soon as you have your your
plants or your combination of plants.
Some are building it on top, some are
building it to the side, some are
building separate buildings, some are
building in one building. And I love the
idea, but literally they it took them a
while to really they thought I was
kidding. It was so good. They said, "No,
no, he's kidding." I said, "I'm not
kidding. That's why we're leading China.
We're leading everybody in this race."
So, we're with you all the way, and
you're gonna I hope everyone's going to
do great and make a tremendous amount of
money and create a lot of jobs. Under
the historic trade deal with the prime
minister that I signed today and private
sector agreements that were signed
moments ago, we'll be increasing our
commerce very, very much further.
Japan's going to be investing $550
billion into the United States and it's
it's an amazing thing and they're happy
and they're they're going to they're
going to love it. It's going to be
really good. It's going to be a great
great for everybody.
>> The president of the United States there
addressing a room full of business
executives in Tokyo, Japan as he wraps
up his trip in the Japanese capital
before moving on to South Korea to meet
with the Chinese leader. A range of
topics covered by the president of the
United States there. The notable one I
think is on the Federal Reserve and the
future of the chair position. This on
Secretary Besson Bremo. I'm thinking
about him for the Fed. He doesn't want
it. That link's not going away.
>> Well, and this is the reason why a lot
of people are saying until we get some
sort of solidification of who the
candidates actually are. You can only
take what Scott Besson is saying as lip
service because it could change. He's
also talked about other people. Uh I'm
thinking about even uh even Lutnik as
potentially being on the Fed. So, I
mean, it's sort of a question of how
this is going to work out.
>> Once again, the president says Scott
Besson is the guy that goes out there
and soos the market when he rattles them
up. He suses the market. I don't sue the
market. I sometimes disturb the market.
So, I said, "Go in there, Scott. Clean
it all up for me." I said yesterday, the
longer this drags on, the likelihood of
Scott Besset becoming the next Fed chair
increases. Because at some point Trump
may be relentless when it comes to
Besset and say, "I really need you to do
this for me."
>> And to be fair, it's dragging on and on.
We thought we might have a decision by
now. Now we're looking for maybe hearing
something closer to the end of the year.
If you're just joining us, welcome to
the program. Three days of gains on the
S&P 500. Equity futures just about
unchanged this morning. Alltime highs
coming into Tuesday. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Kelly Kaminsky
of Alpha Simplex Group with a record
tech stock rally. We'll speak to the
former White House trade adviser
Kellyanne Shaw as the US inks a new rare
earth deal with Japan and Deepak Puri of
Deutsche Bank joins us as the Goldman
Sachs boss plays down some of these
systemic credit concerns. We begin this
hour with stocks at all-time highs ahead
of Max 7 earnings. Katie Kaminsky of
Alpha Simplex Group writing the rally in
equities has been relatively broad-based
with big tech slightly outperforming.
Katie joins us now for more. Katie,
welcome to the program. Jack Caffrey of
JP Morgan kicked off the program with us
and said you don't want to fight this
bull market. Do you agree?
>> I'd have to agree and actually you have
to start asking yourself the question
what are the things that could be a sort
of a stop for this big rally that we've
seen and there isn't anything that's
obvious. I think I am watching though
what Fed commentary will be this week
just given the fact that we don't have
data for future meetings. So I think
that is one potential curveball. But in
general, earnings are good, growth is
good, and the trend has been very strong
from a technical perspective.
>> Katie, that's the equity market. The
equity market is pricing in a rebound in
economic growth. I'm wondering what you
think the bond market is pricing because
this rally, particularly the long end
coming out of the summer, has surprised
many. What do you think explains it?
Well, I think you know bonds have really
been focused on sort of potential rate
cuts and seeing more creative inflation
data is also very positive for bonds
especially on the long end. I think an
interesting point is we haven't seen a
steepener. We've seen sort of a a pause
in that particular move in bond
movements which which means basically
that you know seeing a flatter yield
curve. Um, so I think bonds are very
focused on rate cuts and that has been
pretty consistent, but trend signals
have not been very good at timing those
moves in bonds and there haven't been
sort of very strong themes to follow
except for that bonds have been slightly
up. So I'd say it's still a little
tricky to trade bonds this year.
>> Katie, it's been tricky to track the
correlations. Everything seems to be
rallying at the same time. stocks,
bonds, and precious metals too until
very very recently when the gold trade
started to unwound. Do you see that as
an isolated story in its own asset class
or does it speak to something else
happening somewhere?
>> Well, I think gold is something we
really should watch because it's the
only thing that's telling us something
interesting right now. I think you know
you've seen this very strong gold theme
for the past couple of months and you
have to start asking yourself how much
of this is an overextended rally and you
know deleveraging out of sort of what
has been a very profitable trade and how
much of it is a shift in sentiment about
concerns because I often see gold as
something that people use to hedge their
concern for things like inflation and
you know the recent moves in gold could
give you pause that something might be
changing that we haven't really
understood yet.
>> Well, what could be changing? Is the
market just feeling better about the
geopolitical situation and the trade
narrative coming from the Trump
administration?
>> I think that's the case. So, maybe it's
a a change in sentiment, but it also
could be, and this is the one kind of
wildcard question is like, let's say
that we have a little bit of a pause
from the Fed that would affect real
rates, which also affects gold prices.
So, I think, you know, gold is an
interesting one. It's the only thing
that's kind of moving in a different
direction right now. So, some of it
could be sentiment drifting more
positive. That means everything's kind
of in the same direction. Um, but you
know, we'll have to see. It is something
to pay attention to.
>> Katie, there's a lot of catalysts just
this in this in this week alone. We have
tech earnings, the Fed meeting, and of
course, the president sitting down with
Xi Jinping. What are you most acutely
focused on?
>> I would say I think the the rhetoric
around China has been very important. I
mean you saw those moves. Um it has the
ability to move the market. Um and it is
a theme that the market has been
concerned and focused on. I mean
obviously earnings are important but I
think you know some resolution of some
of the volatility we've seen around that
has been received very positively by the
market. So I think that's something
we're watching. Uh we're also seeing in
commodities take a look at soybean
prices for example. And so you could see
you know other moves as a result of that
particular discussion. Casey, dangerous
territory for me to ask this question
and to wrap up this conversation with
it. Is there a credible bear case going
into 2026? And if there is, what is it?
>> I think this is a really hard one. And
you know, I love to be a bear, but um
you know, you're not seeing it in the
data right now. And I think gold was one
of the themes that was a little bit of a
hedge uh position, I'd say. So, I'd say
right now there's really very little
signals that suggest a bare move. I do
think the Fed potentially pausing due to
lack of data could, you know, kind of
cause some stress for the markets. Is it
a bare case? I'm not sure. Uh, we'll
just have to see, but you're right,
there's not a lot of bare signals out
there.
>> Katie [clears throat] Kaminsky with the
latest. Katie, thank you. Appreciate it.
Katie Kolinsky there of Alpha Simplex
Group. If you're just joining us,
welcome. Equities coming into Tuesday at
record highs. Several key events for
this week. Earnings of course tomorrow
after the closing bow. Likewise on
Thursday in between a Federal Reserve
decision that happens tomorrow afternoon
and a news conference with Chairman Pal.
Of course, no forecast this time.
Difficult to forecast when you don't
have the data. Anyway, the next round of
forecasts come in December. But the
buildup continues to that big meeting
over in South Korea between the Chinese
leader and the president of the United
States. Up next, before we get there,
cutting a deal with Japan.
>> This will be a relationship that will be
stronger than ever before. Anything I
can do to help Japan, we will [music] be
there. We are an ally at the strongest
level.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with the former
senior White House trade adviser,
Kellyanne Shaw, live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[music]
Equities [music]
trading water this morning. The whole of
the trading day is really the buildup to
tomorrow when we get more than $10
trillion of earnings from big tech
together with the Federal Reserve
interest rate decision. [music] Then
it's on to Thursday, another $10
trillion plus of earnings from big tech,
plus a sitdown conversation with the
Chinese leader and the president of the
United States in South Korea. Equities
going nowhere coming into Tuesday at
record highs under Savannah this morning
cutting [music] a deal with Japan.
>> This will be a relationship that will be
stronger than ever before and I look
forward to working with you and on
behalf of our country I want to just let
you know anytime you have any question,
any doubt, anything you want, any favors
you need, anything I can do to help
Japan, we will be there. We are an ally
at the strongest level.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
President Trump and the Japanese Prime
Minister signing deals on critical
minerals and trade ahead of that big
bailout, the meeting between the Chinese
leader Xi Jinping and the president of
the United States. Joining us now is
Tyler Kendall. Joining us now from
Tokyo. Tyler, just tracking that
conversation the president was having
with business leaders in Tokyo. A
standout conversation I think for us was
on Secretary Besson and the future of
the Federal Reserve. Tyler, I know
that's a bit of distraction given that
we're focused on trade, but what did you
make of those comments?
Well, John, it was interesting to hear
President Trump suggests that he is
still at the top of his personal list to
lead the Federal Reserve, but that as
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson has told
us reporters before, he thinks that he
currently has the best job in the US and
isn't interested in the position. I was
pretty struck by President Trump's own
comments, saying that he enjoys when
Bessant goes out and soothes the markets
while he himself acknowledges that he
disturbs the markets. kind of a moment
of chuckle there among the attendees in
the room as President Trump really was
trying to uh establish his ties with
this business community that has
assembled here in Tokyo amid these
planned investments. The economy of
course top of mind as President Trump
himself told them all that they must be
happy when they're watching the stock
market.
>> Tyler, what are we expecting next from
the president? His wheels up this
evening. What are you focused on?
>> Right. Exactly, Amory. Well, we're still
getting some of the bits and pieces from
his trip here in Tokyo as he concludes
his visit, including on these planned
investments from those companies that
are in the room that's pledged a $550
billion investment fund. It really feels
like the White House is trying to gain
as much leverage as possible as it heads
into these negotiations with China on
Thursday. President Trump himself
telling the business leaders in the room
that he thinks he's prepared for a very
good meeting in his own words. says, "We
know that both sides are trying to
bolster their own positions. While we've
gotten some positive indications really
from um everybody from US officials to
Chinese officials, I will point out that
China is doing the same thing the US is
doing leading up to this meeting. Just
this morning, we saw China Inca pact
with uh trade uh negotiators in uh the
ACSEAN summit with these uh countries in
Southeast Asia, which mirrors really
similar to what we saw President Trump
do with uh leaders in Cambodia,
Thailand, and Malaysia as well. So, I'm
keeping my eye on uh how both sides are
trying to boost their leverage even as
it appears that trade tensions are
simmering.
>> Tyler Kendall in Tokyo. Tyler, thank
you. Joining us now around the table to
extend the conversation, the former
senior White House trade advisor,
Kellyan Shaw. Kellian, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Back from Tokyo.
>> I am.
>> How was the flight?
>> It was long.
>> The president seems to have energy that
none of us have. Let's talk about what's
on the table in Tokyo, Japan. What if we
actually agreed? Is there something
substantive here?
>> Sure. Well, this is the very first time
that Japan's new prime minister was
meeting with the president. And there
were some nerves that I detected in
Tokyo leading up to that meeting,
wanting to make sure that she was able
to build the same type of rapport that
prime minister Abbe and others have had.
And I think she succeeded in doing that.
But in terms of what was agreed, we saw
the president and the prime minister
signed the trade deal that they had
previously agreed to. So it wasn't
anything new there, but it was really
that that big moment of making this deal
official. also anou on ship building as
well as anou on critical minerals as
well. So a real partnership on some
strategic sectors.
>> Kellyanian, how much is this a precursor
because the president wants to go in
with the strongest hand possible when he
meets with the Chinese?
>> Yeah, I think that's exactly right. And
so Japan is our sixth largest trading
partner, number one source of FDI, and a
huge player in Asia. This was an
important deal for the president to
really put his stamp on. He's going into
a meeting uh with South Korea's
president. That will be important to see
whether we can get a deal there. And
then you had four trade agreements and
frameworks which were just announced as
well. I think all of that is setting the
stage for this big meeting with
President Xi which is really what
everyone's waiting for.
>> So let's talk about China. Beijing says
that they've reached a preliminary
consensus. The United States says they
reached a framework. I'm sure the truth
is somewhere in the middle. What did
they reach?
>> So we don't know exactly. What we do
know is there are pieces that were
agreed to. And so over the last several
months, US and Chinese negotiators have
been working on text, this framework
agreement that they've been talking
about. Um the pieces that fell into
place were a delay in the rare earth
export controls up to potentially a year
according to Secretary Bessant. Um in
exchange, the United States going to
delay its 100% tariff implementation.
But we also had fentanyl put on the
table, which I don't think anybody was
expecting. So we could actually see the
US lower some tariffs in response to
that. Plus, we have a Tik Tok deal. We
might have something on ship building,
um, which the Chinese side seems to
indicate. And then we could have
cooperation on Russia. So, overall, this
is a slightly bigger package than we
were even expecting.
>> It's clear for the United States, and
correct me if I'm wrong, the biggest win
is the deferment of the rare earth
export controls for China. Is it
potentially getting rid of that 20%
tariff on fentinol?
>> Well, I certainly think the Chinese
don't like the 20% tariff rate. Um, but
there isn't really a scenario I see in
which China is going to end up with a
lower tariff rate overall than some of
our other trading partners in the
region. So to the extent we do see
tariff adjustments, I'm assuming it's
going to be relatively small, somewhere
around the 5 to 10% range as opposed to
that full 20%. Where do you see the
relationship going if there's only a
deferment on rare earth export controls
for potentially this year?
>> Well, I think this is really the the
trillion dollar question. What happens
with the United States and China? Unlike
Trump 1.0 when we were trying to get
China to stop stealing technology, stop
engaging in unfair trading practices,
stop subsidizing industries, I don't
think anyone in Trump 2.0 is under any
illusions that we're going to get China
to walk away from its state directed
non-market economy. So, this is really
about managing the relationship, making
sure it doesn't fall off a cliff,
trading where it makes sense, and
continuing to manage those national
security measures that both sides will
inevitably be taking. Hasn't this all
showed though that these economies are
too intertwined to really either of them
take any harsh actions? Well, there's
definitely this element of mutually
assured destruction, right? And so that
was a concern going into this meeting
that if China wasn't willing to at least
delay these rare earth measures that the
United States might take steps to really
throw this relationship in a place that
was going to be very hard to back off
of. They talked about these mutual
vulnerabilities, mutual choke points. It
looks like all of that will be avoided
for now, but to your point, this could
come up three months from now, six
months from now, a year from now. I
think this is a very dynamic
relationship with a lot that could
potentially go wrong.
>> Getting China to rebalance is
tremendously difficult. You tried, the
Europeans have tried, President Biden
tried, President Trump is trying twice.
What we see this year is they're on
course for a record trade surplus, even
with trade effectively shutting down
between the US and China. How do we get
China to rebalance? I think that's still
the central question to all of this as
you think about it. You've been in the
room. How difficult is it?
>> Yeah, I think you're right. I mean, this
is a massive problem that has been built
up over the past 30 years. So, there
isn't a one uh stop fix to to really
address this issue. But what we have
seen are those trade numbers coming down
with the US. China just a couple weeks
ago published its global trade. And
while trade has gone up with the rest of
the world, it's gone down for the United
States. and and that's a good outcome
for from the perspective of the Trump
administration. They think the tariffs
are helping the also the ambiguity and
the tension about doing business in both
places is making businesses think twice
and all of that is helping balance but
this will take a very long time to
correct.
>> If we could take the US hat on and
attempt to put the European hat on, or
rather take the US off and put the
European hat on, you're with me. Can the
Europeans follow suit? Do you think
ultimately because they've got to eat
the over capacity now the rest of the
world does because the US isn't going to
anymore is the message to them that if
you want the same thing ultimately
you've got to put up the walls too.
>> Yeah. I mean this is the fundamental
challenge to really take on China and to
get it to reform its non-market economy
in a way that's more consistent with the
rest of the world. It would take
cooperation by all of the allies. That
is a step that Europe and others have
not been willing to take yet. Even in
the context of the war in Ukraine which
is existential. the Europeans were not
willing to put on those 100% tariffs.
So, when it comes to economic threats,
it's even harder to steer them in that
direction,
>> which is why some people believe maybe
that rare earth move from China was a
bit of a strategic misstep because it
had the potential to bring the Europeans
closer to the US on this position.
>> You immediately saw European leaders
discuss potentially using a tool that
they have never rolled out, the anti-co
measure. But Jonathan, they are behind
when it comes to what China is doing.
BYD plants are being set up. China is
dumping right now on Europe and it is
absolutely hollowing out Europe's
industrial base and almost what the
Trump administration is doing with China
might just force Europe to get alongside
Washington.
>> Kellyanne, thanks for coming into the
studio. It's good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Thank you. The former senior
White House trade advisor Kellyanne Shaw
on the situation in Japan and of course
the next leg of the trip in South Korea,
the meeting between the US and Chinese
leader. Equities at the moment close to
alltime highs on the S&P 500. A
three-day winning streak coming into
Tuesday. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with the Arkansas Congressman
French Hill as Democrats face new
pressure to end the shutdown. Plus,
Danny has some morning movers. PayPal
shares jumping on a payment partnership
with Open AI. That stock is up by 15%
from New York City. [music] You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
The opening about about two hours away.
Equities going into that just about
unchanged on the S&P 500. on the NASDAQ
100 up by 0.1%. The [music] Russell this
morning pulling back by about a third in
the bond market just to check in on the
scores for you. Twos, tens, and 30s.
10's at the moment just about unchanged.
398 on twos just around 350 [music]
as we count you down to the open up
about 2 hours away with your morning
movers. Let's cross over to Danny for
more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. It's a busy week for earnings
and a busy morning too. We got Royal
Caribbean earnings, the cruise line
operator. They raised their guidance,
but it wasn't buy enough. To be fair,
shares have run up 40% year to date. So
maybe [music] the bar was high. They did
flag a few things. Adverse weather meant
that bookings weren't as strong for the
fourth quarter or heading into the
fourth quarter. They also had to
temporarily close one of their sites in
Haiti. All that weighing on results.
Shares down 7%. [music] We also had
PayPal earnings. It was a beaten raise,
but that's not why shares are up 15%.
It's the only thing that gets shares to
move this much, and it is an AI deal.
Specifically, a deal with Open AI. Chat
GBT is going to integrate PayPal's
wallet so you can have the AI bot shop
and buy [music] things for you. So those
shares up 15 and a half%. Finally,
Wayfair also reporting earnings and it
was a beat from them. There were
expectations or at least hopes that
lower interest rates would mean that
more furniture shopping would happen.
You did see revenue grow 8% and it's a
company [music] that despite all of the
tariff impact is already up 90% year-to
date. So with this, they will have more
than doubled their share price, a move
of 11.3% [music] in the pre-market. John
>> Danny Burgerer there, Danny, thank you.
More from Danny, of course, later this
morning in the next hour. On our radar
this morning, one of our top stories,
the president praising new Japanese
Prime Minister Takayichi and offering
her quote, "Anything you want to
strengthen diplomatic ties, the leader
signing trade and critical minerals
deals, but the details remain vague."
Still,
>> this could not have gone better for
Japan. I know we're still waiting for
some details when it be when it comes to
some of these specifics on uh trade and
on business investment, but you have to
think you are a brand new prime
minister, the president of United States
coming over after dealing with
incredibly at times difficult rhetoric
when it comes to trade. He's saying I
will go above and beyond for you,
especially when it comes to defense. So,
as Kellyanne Shaw was saying, she just
got back from Japan. what she was
hearing from executives and some of some
individuals close to the government.
Little bit of nervousness with the
president coming over for Japan. This
couldn't have gone any better.
>> It's a pretty interesting sequence,
isn't it? Tie up things with your allies
in the region in Asia and then move on
to South Korea and sit down with the
Chinese leader. Just how much leverage
has the president got? How much to what
extent is this deal already signed and
done?
>> This deal it sounds like from what
Kellyanne Shaw was saying who was there
at the table during Trump won is almost
done. There is a framework. Will that
framework be made public? This does feel
like a work in progress and as Kellyanne
said, it's really about managing this
relationship from this point on
potentially not this grand bargain that
a lot of people thought we would maybe
get with Beijing going into Trump's
second term.
>> That's the latest on trade. Let's turn
to tech. Qualcomm shares up slightly
after hitting a 15-month high on Monday.
The jump following the unveiling of new
chips and computers for the AI data
center market as the company tries to
challenge Nvidia. Their stock is down
this morning by 1.4%. And finally,
Goldman Sachs CEO David Solomon saying
he doesn't see any systemic risk looming
in the credit market. Solomon describing
recent losses at regional banks as
idiosyncratic events that serve as a
reminder to stay vigilant about
underwriting standards. David Solomon
catching up with Jamanna Beti over in
Riyad, Saudi Arabia. We're going to hear
from Jamra a little bit later this
morning when she sits down with the JP
Morgan executive Mary Erdos. Let's turn
to the shutdown. Democrats now facing
pressure from the largest federal
workers union to put an end to the
week's long stalemate in Washington.
Joining us now is the Republican
Congressman French Hill of Arkansas.
Congressman, welcome back to the
program, sir. We've had a couple of
guests talk up maybe this ending at the
end of November. What are your
constituents saying to you, sir?
>> Well, John, it's nice to be with you.
Well, this Schumer shutdown has been a
disaster. While they try to get 1.5
trillion in new spending, undo all the
reforms to the Medicaid program, just to
name two items, we're putting farmers at
risk in my state. I met with farmers
last week. They're desperate for the
Congress to come back into session, work
with Secretary Brooke Rollins on a
particular uh effort to have a a stop
gap measure to help them between now and
the benefits in the great big beautiful
bill in the next fiscal year to help our
farm economy, which is in desperate
shape. We have record uh Chapter 12
bankruptcies in Arkansas. I've got 400
National Guardsmen that are on furlowed
and on unemployment this week in my
district. So, my best advice is that if
Schumer would release these Democratic
senators, let's sit the government back
open and continue our negotiations on
appropriations.
>> Congressman, do you think that
Republicans should all be back on the
Hill to potentially await maybe a single
funding measure to either pay those
individuals like you're talking about in
your district that are not getting paid
or federal workers?
Well, the Senate has put those bills on
the floor with the senators right there
and Chuck Schumer has blocked the motion
to proceed to pay federal workers uh to
take other targeted actions to pay
military employees. I mean, this is the
kind of shameful rhetoric and approach
that Chuck Schumer has taken. He's
holding federal employees and state
employees that are funded by federal
grant programs hostage. And that's why
the uh employee union of the federal
government spoke out yesterday. But
that's what I hear from uh folks in my
district every day. The House is at
call. We did our work 5 weeks ago. We're
on call. We can be back here in minutes
if the Senate moves to open the
government. And as this drags on, we're
just going to be confronted with another
vote on the continuing resolution in
just a few days. So, we've missed all
this time of important work on
agriculture, on banking, on reviewing
housing policy, all because Schumer
wants to spend 1.5 trillion more and do
away with all the reforms that we made
in the Medicaid program.
>> I guess my question is, is Speaker
Johnson and you and your colleagues
willing to vote for some of these
one-off spending bills if the Senate was
able to pass it?
Well, look, the Senate, what needs to
happen is Chuck Schumer needs to reop
open the government. That's what needs
to happen, Amarie. That's the easiest
thing to do. Five weeks ago, we offered
a clean CR that had Democratic support.
You have Democratic senators saying that
Chuck Schumer is wrong. You have
Democratic House members saying that
Chuck Schumer is wrong. So he just needs
to get with reality uh and recognize
that we should be opening the government
and then we can continue the work on
FY26 spending.
>> You mentioned agricultural and some of
the farmers that are suffering right
now. A lot of that has to do with the
fact that in retaliation to the Trump
administration's tariffs, China is no
longer buying soybeans. Well, that we're
expected to change today uh or this
week. How is your district reacting to
what is going on in terms of trade
relationships this administration is
having with China?
>> Well, the principal challenge to our
rowcrop farmers in Arkansas is that
we're potentially entering the fourth
year of bad finances. 1.5 billion in
losses is forecast for this farm year.
That's the three years and we're getting
ready to enter a a fourth year brought
about by higher costs due to the
inflation during the Biden
administration and the inflationary
effects of the Russia's invasion of
Ukraine. These have crushed the cost
side of producing a crop and then prices
have stayed fairly reasonable all during
this period, but we've had surplus crops
around the world. You're right that Joe
Biden did not enforce Trump's uh uh
agricultural products deal in his term
and that only about 60% of the soybeans
that China promised to pay and Trump won
were those purchases were made. So I
hope that President Trump can get that
market back open for American growers.
But we also have to recognize that four
bad years in a row is going to put the
banks in trouble and the farmers in
trouble. Uh before I was in Congress, I
was an agricultural lender. I know about
how challenging it is with two
back-to-back losses, but you go a third
or start a fourth, you're going to put a
lot of farmers out of business.
>> Congressman, this is a slightly
uncomfortable question. I understand
that because of what this business means
to the people of your state. But at the
moment, the US is making, I think, a
well articulated decision to derisk from
China.
that would therefore in some ways make
it difficult to rely on China being a
buyer of anything for the foreseeable
future. Do you think that's something we
have to reconcile with farm production
in this country that we can no longer
rely on the Chinese buyer even if we get
some temporary relief and a soybeans
deal this week?
>> Well, I think that's why you see
Secretary Bessant and Secretary Lutnik
emphasizing
soybean markets all around the world
besides China. We don't want to ever in
business put all your eggs in one basket
and we've been very dependent on the
Chinese market as you know for the past
three decades. But we have to recognize
we've got to open up other markets
around the world. We produced the best
soybeans in the world at the best price
and we have the best farmers and so we
just need to make sure that we diversify
that market because you're right, our
farmers at risk as long as we're in the
middle of a d-risking uh strategy from
China. But that's not just in a products
but across the board obviously. It's
>> true. You're right in the middle of it
right now. Congressman, appreciate your
time as always. The Arkansas Congressman
French Hill, great to see you, sir, as
always. It's an uncomfortable topic for
the farming industry, the agricultural
industry in this country.
>> China since the 1990s has always
continuously bought soybeans from the
United States. Is the first time that
the purchase is literally at zero. And
what French Hill is talking about is the
fact that farmers are faced with higher
input costs. They are dealing with
weaker prices and tighter credit. What
is going on in the farming industry and
this administration has said that
there's going to be a farmer bailout. We
also saw a farmer bailout in Trump won
billions of dollars. The problem is the
government is shut down. So it's really
difficult. They have some money that
they can use at USDA, but it's really
difficult to get a full bailout when you
don't have legislation
>> and no end in sight right now. At least
it could go to month end. Equities just
turning higher just a little bit
positive by not even a tenth of 1% on
the S&P 500. With an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief, let's cross back over
to Yahara for more. Hey Yahara. Hi
[music] John. UPS shares are soaring
more than 10% in the pre-market after
the company smashed third quarter profit
expectations. [music] The results
suggest the CEO's turnaround plan is
gaining traction after the shipping
giant struggled with slow demand and
high costs. UPS unveiled it has
eliminated about 34,000 [music]
jobs this year in its workforce which
includes drivers and package handlers.
Meanwhile, JetBlue [music] shares are
sliding 1% in the pre-market despite the
carrier reporting a smaller than
expected loss in the third quarter.
Adjusted net loss [music] came in at
$144 million compared to the average
estimates of $155 million in the period.
The airline, like all the others,
expects relatively stronger [music]
demand for its premium offerings
compared with the main cabin. And the
$2.9 billion commuter rail project to
connect New York City's northern suburbs
to [music] Penn Station is facing a
three-year delay. The MTA saying Amtrak,
which owns the railroad tracks, hasn't
provided enough access to their
infrastructure for construction. The
project is now set to be completed by
midyear of 2030. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, concerns about credit.
>> I don't see anything in the context of a
handful of bad credit situations. It's
leading me to say that we have a
systemic issue around the corner.
>> The Goldman Sachs boss David Solomon
sitting down with Jamai Bloomberg in
Riyad, Saudi Arabia. We'll get the
latest on his thoughts and developments
coming from BMP Parabar. We'll get a
view on the market with Deepak Puri of
Deutsche Bank [music] up next.
>> [music]
[music]
>> packed week ahead. We've been through
the events already. Lots of earnings, a
Fed decision, a sitdown conversation
with the Chinese and the US leader later
on today at noon. You'll also hear from
the Nvidia CEO Jensen Wang. Also
interested to see Tim Cook in the room
with the president a little bit earlier
in Tokyo, Japan. The president holding a
business meeting [music] with business
leaders in Tokyo in the Japanese
capital. Unexpected. Didn't expect to
see Tim Cook [music] of Apple.
>> Didn't expect to see Tim Cook. I find it
interesting because I was with the
president to in the Middle East. Tim
Cook was not there and the president
continuously reminded the audience and
Tim Cook, I'm sure, saw that video back
that he wasn't there and then Tim Cook
quickly made sure he was in [music] the
United Kingdom. When the president went
for that state royal visit and now he
showed up in Japan. One thing notable
though, the president did say to Tim
Cook, "Are are you joining me for the
rest of the trip? I'm going on to South
Korea. We'll be there." And he's like,
"Oh, you're just here for the night. Oh,
okay. You're not coming on the rest of
the trip." I think there's something
going on there. He loves to jawbone him
about, you know, and he's keeping score.
who shows up and who doesn't.
>> He was the diplomat of the moment
[music] in the previous administration
in President Trump's first term. Then it
turned to Jensen Wang and Tim Cook was
kind of left out in the cold and this is
the delicate dance for Apple at the
moment maintained a presence for
production in China shift a bit to India
and managed to keep the US happy at the
same time.
>> It's Jensen Wang for sure right now.
This is an individual that before Trump
came into power everything he was
socializing to the Biden administration
to the market what he wanted to see in
terms of chip policy. Well, Trump did
it. The [music] diffusion rule is really
key. And Jensen Wang told me about this
in Saudi Arabia on that trip. He said,
"The diffusion rule is dead." That was
all under Trump. And guess what? Jensen
Wang is speaking today in Washington DC.
And then guess where he's going? To meet
[music] President Trump on this Asia
tour and they'll be having a
conversation tomorrow.
>> You'll hear from the Avidia CEO a little
bit later on this afternoon. We'll catch
up with Ed Lello [music] ahead of that.
Ed's down in Washington DC. We'll talk
to Ed in about an hour from now. If
you're just joining us, welcome to the
program. Record highs on the S&P 500.
Equity futures this morning positive by
a tenth of 1% on the NASDAQ 100 high up
by 0.13. So m performance on the small
caps last week on the Russell this
[music] morning some underperformance.
We're down by about a third of 1%. Going
into that Fed meeting tomorrow your bond
market shaping up as follows. Twos 10
and 30s. Bond yields at the moment look
a little something like this. Yields
[music] just about unchanged on 10 at
398 on twos up a single basis point 349.
At some point this morning, the Federal
Reserve's 2-day meeting will begin under
surveillance this morning. Concerns
about credit.
>> I don't see anything in the context of a
handful of bad credit situations. It's
leading me to say that we have a
systemic issue around in the corner.
Unfortunately, you know, lenders make
mistakes. There is fraud in markets, but
we should not be fooled by the fact that
this is a very robust credit
environment. Credit spreads are tight
and when we do have a cycle which
probably will come when there's an
economic slowdown there will be losses
and we'll feel that across the economy.
>> David Solomon of Goldman Sachs playing
down systemic risk. [music] Here's the
latest on everything else. BMP Paraba
the trading unit taking a third quarter
hit from saring debt adding to recent
concerns about private credit. Deepak
Puri of Deutsche Bank private bank joins
us now for more. Deepac good morning
sir.
>> Good morning. Look, I think David
Solomon did a decent job of drawing a
very very big line between systemic risk
and credit concerns. There's still
concerns, I think, about a turn in the
credit cycle. Do you share them?
>> Um, maybe episodically, right? So, we've
seen one of these um, you know, credit
risk every now and then come out. For
me, Jonathan, the biggest risk is this
year we have seen two really big supply
shocks and we still don't know the the
full-term ramifications. I'm talking
about tariffs and labor supply. So once
you have those two, you know, I think
2026 might be a better test case for for
these kind of supply shocks and their
unintended consequences. As for now, I
think, you know, episodic news with
regards to credit, I'll take it uh
really episodically. Well, at least one
of them might be lulling this Federal
Reserve into early interest rate
reductions. The Fed seems confused at
the moment. We know, we've seen in the
data, massive step down in payrolls
growth. Got that. What's behind it?
demand or supply which one is it?
>> I think labor market is one of those
conditions where demand adjusts to
supply in a way. So if the supply of uh
you know workers is reducing I think
demand is going to start adjusting to it
and what we are seeing is this
automation drive from companies that is
hurting you know the overall supply.
What is also a little bit disturbing is
the government shutdown because I think
it sort of exacerbates the uh the labor
market condition.
>> Typically DPAC as you know and Amar's
laughing because typically we look right
through this it doesn't matter it's a
bump in the road growth comes back
basically it's growth delayed and not
derailed.
>> Sure.
>> The longer it goes on do you start to
change your thoughts on that?
>> I think yes. U primarily because it's
after a while it becomes exponential in
terms of the output activity. So the
first few weeks I mean the consensus is
10 basis points of economic output gets
reduced but after a certain point let's
say this ends up being mid November
you're going to start seeing more
concerns with regards to the um you know
the impact it's having on broader
economy and then obviously it'll have an
impact on the labor market. So I would
not be completely you know negating the
fact that yes over the years whenever we
have a government shutdown it tends to
be you know short-lived and painless. Uh
this time it might be different.
>> I'm only laughing because you say the
word disturbing which I also find
disturbing. The market is creating fresh
all-time highs clearly ignoring it.
Besides the impact it have on the
economy, how long could this Federal
Reserve or investors go without economic
data?
>> Well, they have shown tremendous
resilience to to drive their policy
without much uh but because they're
using anecdotal evidence as to get a
grasp on where the economy is. And I
think even there is a government
shutdown, you know, crisis, let's say
quote unquote, there's so many other
positives that are happening in the
markets, Anmir, that I think takes too
much precedence over government
shutdown. I think the fact that you're
looking at an AI hypers scale capex
spending guidance, which might come
again a lot better than expected. You
have a little bit of a framework between
the US and the Chinese with regards to
the trade and tariffs. that could be
potentially a game breaker because
within that trade and tariff, one of the
uncertainties has been the Chinese one,
you know, because that's really where
the the bone of contention has been. And
then last but not the least, the the
Fed, there is this expectation maybe end
of QT. You look at the sulfur, you know,
20 basis points over the Fed funds
overnight rate. You can argue that there
is some liquidity tightness where the
Fed would be, you know, want to ease
some of that. So all these three things
I think are taking much greater
precedence over the government shutdown.
>> But these three things it sounds like we
have a tremendous amount of certainty on
the trade story seems more optimistic
with China. We know that the Fed is
going to cut 98% chance the Fed is going
to be cutting interest rates. So what
gives the market potentially or where do
you see the market potentially having a
little bit more of a cautious tone in
regards to what? Yeah, I think from now
till the year end once these three
things are not disappointed, right?
There's no disappointment with these
three things. I think the seasonality
will take over. So from now till the
year end, I would not be surprised if
you see a little bit more of this risk
takingaking and then you know investors
chasing a very high rally market which
is usually the case. I think the biggest
concern for me is really what transpires
in the first half of 2026 where you are
going to be going through a cyclical
sort of softness in the markets and now
we'll get to know what is the worst come
outcome with regards to the labor
markets because we didn't have the data
for the last 2 3 months so in totality
so what could potentially happen and I
think if this labor market statistics
are similar to what we have seen in the
privacy previous years where June July
was the the weakness and then it started
getting better then it'll be okay.
However, there is a likelihood that it
might not be the case that way and in
that particular instance I think the
markets are need to recalibrate to a
much stocker you know economic reality
that the you know economy is slowing
more than expected.
>> Well, what do you think the source of
that slowdown or that softness as you
call it for the first half actually is
and to what extent will it be offset by
the massive tax refunds that I keep
hearing about that are going to kick in
in early next year?
>> Right. I mean it depends. I mean we are
thinking it's going to be with a 0.6 to
0 you know 1%. You know you right now
you look at GDP now the now now cast
from uh New York Fed everything is
showing a with a three handle. So it's
much better but these things can change
quite quickly. So I would not be
surprised if you start seeing a below
potential GDP number for the first half
of the year. And on top of that, you
know, there might be some concerns about
these credit conditions, these credit
stresses that are developing becoming a
little bit more broader, default rates
going up. So I think primarily that's
one area of concern. And then last but
not the least, I would not be um you
know, the lagged and varying effect of
the tariff. I think uh the fact that we
are having these bilateral
you knowus uh does not necessarily mean
that the lagged effect of uh the tariff
rate which is five times what you know
the world is used to is not going to
have an impact.
>> Final question from me in the 40 seconds
we've got less greater potential for
higher stocks or lower bond yields in
the first half of next year.
>> How about neither? I think because last
time I came in I said you don't want to
be overly bearish and the question was
that the markets can go up and bonds
could rally and that was in early
September. I would not be surprised if
you see a little bit of a a bond
weakness going up, you know, so the
yields going up and stock markets having
a little bit of a recalibration uh come
20 early parts of 2026.
>> That's a toxic mix for this market.
That's for sure. Deepac plenty to think
about. Thank you, sir. Deepak Puri.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you. Thank you very much. Deepac
Puri there of Deutsche Bank. Up next on
the program, we'll catch up with Osen
Kuan of Wells Fargo with a new price
target year end on the S&P 500. We speak
to Bloomberg's Anarak Rana, the former
Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan, and
the CEO of JP Morgan Asset and Wealth
Management, Marto joining us about an
hour from now from New York City. The
third hour of Blimp Surveillance up next
[music]
>> [music]
>> The Fed will just have to deal with the
data that it can get.
>> Data or no data. You still have to make
policy. We actually are expecting less
rate cuts than I would say the market
is.
>> We are not rooting for more rate cuts.
>> The risk is you're cutting into a higher
growth, higher inflation environment.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now. And
your scores look like this. Alltime
highs coming into Tuesday morning at the
close on Monday. A record on the S&P on
the NASDAQ on a Russell. Futures this
morning positive by a tenth of [music]
1% across the board with the exception
of the Russell. Underperformance there
this morning by a quarter of 1%. In the
bond market, a little bit of a snooze so
far on twos, tens, and 30s. Just about
unchanged, just south of 4% [music] on
10, sub 350 on twos. 34939.
This week ain't snoozing. Check this
out. The week ahead full of tech
earnings, a Federal Reserve interest
rate decision, and a meeting [music]
between Trump and she in South Korea
just after a sitdown conversation with
the Japanese leader only hours ago.
Three huge catalysts when you comes to
this week and one of the biggest ones
and the overhang that's been in the
market for months since Trump took
office is [music] how is the
relationship going to be managed with
Beijing. We heard from Kellyanne Shaw.
[music] She was at the table. Trump won.
She literally just got off the plane.
She was just in Japan. She said in Japan
business [music] leaders, some
government associates were nervous. The
meeting could not have gone better for
the Japanese. And what Trump is doing is
making the rounds in Asia before he sits
down [music] with Xi Jinping. really
bolstering the US position in
Asia-Pacific when it comes to the tit
fortat we have been [music] seeing
between Washington and Beijing. So far,
this looks like this meeting is going to
be very well managed from what the
Treasury Secretary has said in terms of
rare earths being deferred [music] and
they're going to be buying some more
soybeans and Trump is going to take a
100% tariff threat off the table.
>> You'll hear from Jensen Wank a little
bit later on today. He's down in
Washington DC, the boss of course of
Nvidia. One thing we didn't expect to
see in the room in Tokyo, Japan was
Apple's Tim Cook, who is the diplomat at
the moment. Now, Tim Cook making a move
in Tokyo.
>> He's trying to edge out Jensen Wang. But
I have news for you. The president also
said sitting down with business leaders
that after Jensen Wang speaks in
Washington DC today, he's getting on a
plane to Asia because the president says
he [music] plans to meet the Nvidia CEO
and he is going to be on the last leg of
that trip with the president. [music]
So, I think it's still a tossup, but it
looks like Jensen Wang is still the
diplomat for [music] Trump 2, although
Tim Cook definitely had the hat for that
one for Trump one
>> for the moment at least. And things can
change. Equities are higher by a tenth
[music] of 1% on the S&P 500. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Osen Quan
of Wells Fargo as stocks trade near
all-time highs. We'll catch up with
Blooms Bloomberg's Ed Ledllo as we break
down the latest moves from Adobe and the
former Dallas Fed President Robert
Kaplan with a key Fed rate decision just
around the corner. We begin this hour
with stocking Kaya as investors gear up
for a crucial week of earnings. Osen
Kuan of Wells Fargo raising his year-end
price target on the S&P from 6650 to
7100 and writing the following. We're
out with a big call this morning calling
for an everything rally into year end.
Our call is to buy lowquality junk high
beta and small and mid AI capex
beneficiaries a full risk on trade joins
us now for more good morning
>> good morning
>> I mean that's quite a call so let's get
into it what's the source of this change
for you
>> yeah so we see about five potential
catalysts uh in two year end we're
bullish um so those five are seasonality
obviously November December has been the
best two months for the S&P but not just
for the S&P but especially for the
laggers after tax loss harvesting in
October we typically the laggers
rallying in November through January. Uh
number two, AI capex. I think we're
going to see another uh upper surprise
in AI capex when hyperscalers report
this week. Number three, potential
tariff refund. So IPA hearing is going
to be next week. The ruling is probably
going to be in January. And there's
about 60% chance according to betting
markets um that it gets repealed. And if
that happens, we're talking about $160
billion dollars of tariffs collected
being distributed to the economy, which
is going to be huge, reflationary. Um
number four, the OBB tax return. We
estimate about $800 incremental tax
return per filer uh this upcoming um tax
return season, which is going to be
bullish for the consumer as well. And
lastly, potential government reopening.
Um that's going to be bullish as well
for
>> Okay, so let's break down some of this.
I'm going to let Amarie handle
everything to do with Washington DC. I
want to ask you about tech spending. So
the capex story and what we're going to
hear from the major tech players on
Wednesday and on Thursday, they're
spending lots. Do they need to report
some really robust revenue growth
alongside that for investors to continue
tolerating this?
>> I think for hyperscalers
as a group um we're not that bullish
because they're the capex spenders.
Their free cash flow is coming down and
historically you want to avoid companies
that are invest that are in an
investment cycle which is basically
hyperskellish today. The areas that were
more bullish is really the capex takers,
especially the smaller cap companies.
They're really starting to benefit from
uh this hyperscalers, capex increasing.
Um the major players right now, even the
capex takers, they're at full capacity.
There are a lot of crumbles that are
falling off the table and those crumbles
are huge for the smaller guys. So that's
really the group that we like. We have a
basket of about 25 smaller cap AI capex
beneficiaries that we like.
Let's go to tariffs because I think the
story is underappreciated right now in
the market. The fact that you can have
more of $90 billion having to be repaid
back to these businesses. But the Trump
administration basically has other ways
to get around tariffs. So doesn't that
get rid of that reimbursement because
companies are going to have to pay it
just it's going to have a different
title to it?
>> Yeah. But I think into that event,
potential event, that binary event, uh
we're going to see some reflationary
trade because uh investors will want to
position for that potential uh repeal of
tariffs. Um I think the New York is
obviously going to be very bullish for
equities, rates probably higher and gold
higher on physical concerns. Um but in
the medium to longer term, this could
potentially create more uncertainty.
>> Then there's the shutdown. If the market
is shrugging off now, why would they
care when it reopens? Yeah, I mean
government shutdowns historically have
been non-events basically. Um but coming
out of shutdowns, we typically see the
S&P rallying even harder. Um no news
actually has been good news for the
market because there's no data coming
out and there's no negative catalysts
for the market. Um even if the
government reopens, there's probably
going to be about at least two week
period where we still don't see much
data. It's more going to be what
companies are saying and how the third
party data is suggesting. So I think
that's still a pretty bullish setup for
equities.
>> Low quality and junk. What is lowquality
and junk?
>> Yeah. So unprofitable tech. Okay.
>> Um so more speculative stocks. Uh some
of the laggers that have underperformed
that are really struggling. So we're
essentially pitching a catch-up trade in
two year end because I think it's going
to be a full risk on in year end.
>> Do you need the Federal Reserve to come
along for the ride and keep signaling
more to come? Yeah, I mean I think Fed
is basically a done deal. Um they're
probably going to go uh on Wednesday and
if that's the case, I think Fed is
probably we we are in a a real easing
cycle. So the Fed is done. It's more
about fundamentals now and you know some
of the risks that we are seeing that
have proven to be less of a risk than
what we had expected initially.
>> This picture you're painting I feel like
is the meme stock frenzy we saw. Are you
expecting almost something like that?
>> We could see a little bit of that too.
Um you know we we until last week we
were seeing some of that happening in
some of the meme stocks and the retail
driven names. Um I think last week was a
little weird that the setup itself was
pretty unfavorable because last week if
you think about all the earnings that
came out it was mostly regionals and
industrials which were obviously facing
more headwinds. There was no AI earnings
and we had the CPI overhang on Friday.
So I think that setup the calendar setup
itself was a little shaky. CPI was
obviously very positive and into this
week where we when we are going to hear
all from all the AI companies we have
the Fed we also have US China on Friday.
Um so I think the setup is pretty
favorable for some of the lower quality
stocks.
>> If you have 7100 for this year what does
that mean for your 7200 target next
year?
>> Yeah we're we're thinking about that. We
we're re we're going to revisit our 2026
numbers. Um, I still see
>> sounds like higher.
[laughter]
>> Yeah, I still see more upside to that
number.
>> We had a guest on the program that said
maybe we could see a soft patch in the
Perth staff of 26. You must have heard
him. He was on right before you. What
gives you hope that this can continue
through 26. I'm not going to pin you
down for a new price target. We'll wait
for the annual outlook. But what gives
you hope that that's the case?
>> Yeah, I mean it's really going to be
driven by earnings. Um, we still see a
pretty healthy backdrop for earnings.
We're forecasting 11% growth for 26
followed by another 12% in 2027. So if
that's the case, even if multiples stay
the same, we're talking about, you know,
low teens return in equities.
>> I'm not going to question the earnings
because every time I do that, Wednesday,
Thursday hits and earnings season, the
tech players come out and they knock it
out of the park. So I won't question the
earnings. I do wonder how you think
about the rest of the world. The
international stock story had its moment
in the sun the first quarter of the
year. Everything kind of ripped and
things have settled down since. Where
are you on the US versus the rest of the
world?
>> Yeah, I think US still looks more
favorable um in terms of the AI story. I
mean the rest of the world we could
potentially see a catch-up trade there
too if we start to see the manufacturing
cycle really turn. Um but the areas that
we are more bullish are really around
AI.
>> Is there one thing that makes you
nervous
>> given how bullish you sound? I mean
we've been through all the bull case. Is
there one thing that just sort of
niggles at you a little bit?
>> Yeah, I mean I think hyperscalers
probably because their free cash flow is
coming down. um and they are the the
biggest companies in the S&P 500. So if
you start to see more of a rotation type
of trade rather than broadening out with
everything rallying then that's not
going to be good for the S&P at the
index level.
>> Oen it's good to see you. Thanks for
breaking down the call. Osen Kwan there
of Wells Fargo 7100 year end 7100 year
end on the S&P 500 new price target. Who
am I to question that given the rally
we've already seen since the April low
from New York. Welcome to the program.
Equities up by a tenth of 1% on the S&P
500 with an update on news worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Yahara for more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. PayPal shares are soaring 15%
in the pre-market after the payments
giant reached a deal with Open AI to
embed itself within Chat GPT. PayPal
will now provide payment tech payment
technology to help turn user searches
into purchases.
>> [music]
>> The company also reported thirdarter
earnings that beat estimates and
approved a quarterly cash [music]
dividend program. Meanwhile, Google has
signed a deal with Next Era Energy to
[music] supply power for its US data
centers from a restarted nuclear plant.
Next Era will start delivering power
from [music] the Iowa plant by 2029
under a 25-year agreement with Google.
Building nuclear power plants to fuel
the energy demands of the AI boom can
take years. So reviving closed
facilities is emerging as a faster
[music] option. And in sports, the LA
Dodgers are up two games to one in the
World Series after a marathon 18ining
win over the Toronto Blue Jays. Dodgers
star Freddy Freeman hit a walk-off solo
home run to give the Dodgers the 6 to5
[music] win. 6 hours and 39 minutes
later, the game had begun. It ties the
record for the longest postseason game
in history. Also set by the Dodgers back
in 2018. [music] That's your Bloomberg
brief, John.
>> Absolutely ridiculous. Yhara, thank you.
Thank you very much. Up next on the
program, we'll get you some morning
calls. Plus, we'll catch up with
Bloomberg's Ed Ladello with Adobe
announcing new AI plans. That
conversation just around the corner from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[music]
You have to start asking yourself the
question, what are the things that could
[music] be a sort of a stop for this big
rally that we've seen? And there isn't
anything that's obvious. I think I am
watching though what Fed commentary will
be this week just given the fact that we
don't have data for future meetings. So
I think that is one potential curveball.
>> [music]
>> That was Katie Kaminsky of Alpha Simplex
Group looking ahead to a week full of
event risk including tech earnings, a
Federal Reserve meeting, and a sitdown
conversation between the Chinese leader
Xi Jinping and the President of the
United States, the two largest economies
on the planet negotiating over trade
later on this week. That conversation
[music] is about two days away. In the
equity market at the moment, all-time
highs on the S&P 500, adding some weight
to a rally up by a tenth of 1% on the
Nasdaq up by 0.2. Osen Quan of Wells
Fargo [music] saying there's more to
come. New price target for him. He moves
from 66.50 to 7100 says, "We're out with
a big call this morning calling for an
everything rally [music] into year end
by lowquality junk high beta AI capex
beneficiaries." He calls it a full
riskon [music]
trade. That's quite a call to make and
it's quite a moment to make it going
into this week.
>> Absolutely. in this week cuz you have
three really key [music] catalysts when
it comes to the Fed, when it comes to
tech earnings, and of course when it
comes to managing this relationship with
Beijing. We basically have the base case
for two of them. [music] We're still
waiting exactly what's going to go on
with tech earnings potentially, but when
it comes to [music] this trade agreement
and something I thought was really
interesting, Osan was talking about the
fact that we can potentially get as well
when it comes to [music] tariffs into
year end. the fact that IPA we still do
not know what the Supreme Court is going
to rule on. Committee for a responsible
budget put out a note yesterday talking
about how we've collected $195 [music]
billion in tariffs this year. That's up
250% what the United States collected
last year. [music] But if AIP is struck
down, you are talking about north of $90
billion having to be refund to these
companies. And Osan said says that is
very bullish [music] in the short term.
>> That could have some consequences though
for the bond market. That may well be
bearish, which is an odd one because
back in [music] April, of course, it was
bearish. They went on, but given the
revenue story you described, [music] the
dependence on the deficit for those
things going forward from here, what
would it mean for the long end of this
bond market? Yields unchanged this
morning. 398 on 10 on 30s, 455 [music]
yields at the very front end of the
curve in focus as the Federal Reserve
gets together twos at 34939. That's the
price action. [music] Let's get you some
morning calls. First up, Bed raising its
price target on Apple to 280, expecting
tailwinds from its upgrade cycle. Your
second call comes from City, raising
[music] its target on Palanteer to 190,
citing positive channel checks across
its government and commercial
businesses. And finally, your third and
final call from UBS raising [music] its
price target on Amazon to 279,
highlighting expectations for AWS growth
going into earnings. Their stock is
higher by 7/10 [music] of 1%. Let's
stick with tech. Kadobi shares higher
with the company announcing continued
integrations of generative [music] AI
into its tools. Blimp Ed Lllo joins us
now from Washington for more. Ed, that
stock is up by 2%. What's the story?
Yeah, it's hard to know if this is just
an open AI bump by association because
one of the technology plays that Adobe
is doing is offering third-party models
through its suite of applications. And
as we know from recent weeks and months,
if you're a technology company, in
particular, a software company, and you
make an announcement that includes the
words Open AI, stocks tend to rise. But,
you know, I also feel like a part of the
move is based on the conversation that
we had with Adobe's CEO where he's
basically saying, "We don't get the
credit for the work we've been doing for
the last few years because the market
right now only cares about announcements
around infrastructure investment. How
many chips do you have? How many dollars
you pledging?" And his point to me was,
we've done all of that, and what you
will start to see is the investments we
made in AI show up in revenues and
margin expansion and profit in the
software that we already sell. Um, and
and a bit of fighting talk from someone
and a company that maybe are usually a
little bit more muted on on that subject
matter.
>> Ed, we will hear from Jensen, the NVIDIA
boss, a little bit later on this
afternoon. That's why you're down in
Washington DC. He's the man at the
epicenter of all of this. Is he facing
an increased challenge from elsewhere?
>> Yes, in the sense that you know the
Qualcomm story yesterday was quite
severe. You know, the market reaction to
a product that has a very specific
application. Um he he also just faces
the pressures of setting himself up for
this. You know, as we've been writing
about on the Bloomberg terminal, there
is a perception that he Nvidia and and
Jensen Hong are doing this in Washington
DC, blocks from the White House, because
they still need to convince the
president to move forward favorably when
it comes to to whatever's happening in
China. Um, you know, John, GTC is a
developers conference. It's always
technical. It's always product based. We
already know quite a lot about the
NVIDIA product roadmap for the next 5
years. Um, but as you know, the dynamic
for for Nvidia is very clear. They they
need the president to tell them what
they can or can't do in China right now.
Um, and you would have seen the
headlines this morning that I think from
the president himself saying he he
expects to see or meet with Jensen Wong
tomorrow and that is all that matters
right now. Can Nvidia go back to a
market in China where they once had 80%
share and currently have kind of zero as
they navigate shifting policy? Yeah,
it's interesting to have the conference
in Washington DC to get to the
president, get the uh sites of the
United States government, the president
even though he's in Asia. So, I guess
it's important that he's going to go
take this trip and go meet the president
overseas. Ed, how important is that
conversation going to be given the fact
that right after the president likely
will meet Jensen, he's going to be
sitting down with Xi Jinping?
Yeah, you know, again, pardon the pun,
but how much of a of a negotiating or
bargaining chip is Nvidia in this trade
negotiation? You know, Jensen Hong's
language that he has used quite
consistently to his credit is completely
in line with this new generation of
China hawk that's in the White House,
people like David Sachs who basically
take the policy stance that it is better
for America to export a deprecated chip
and technology to China than none at
all.
uh in the sense that they will stop
China from having domestic champions or
China selling its own technology into
markets like the Gulf and Africa. Um the
problem is that we're still in limbo.
And so if the president is able to use
it as lever to say to China, okay, you
can have the Nvidia deprecated chips, we
want rare earths, that is something
that's still playing out. Um and and it
what's not clear in this new era or
generation of China hawk is which of
those individuals have most influence
over the president
>> who has the most and we'll see where we
we get in trade.
>> Ed, who do you think has the most
influence over the president right now
in the tech sector? Trump won. It was
really Tim Cook who made an appearance
this evening with the president when it
comes to business leaders in Tokyo. And
then the president tomorrow is going to
see Jensen Wong. Who has more of the
influence?
>> Jensen Wong. you know that we we've been
speaking endlessly about the travel time
that that Jensen Wong has had with the
president uh the Gulf, the United
Kingdom, and the president comments on
Jensen regularly. I I actually don't
know what the context of his his Jensen
one comment was this morning. This
president uh the president I'm assuming
he was asked about it. Um but you know
outside of what happens on television
cameras are reporting about what happens
in the corridors of the White House and
behind the scenes. You know clearly uh
and you broke that story do you remember
AMH where the president at the AI
winning the race summit said that at one
time he was considering breaking up
Nvidia but was informed by his advisers
well now Jensen's a nice guy I don't
think I'll do that. you know that
relationship has been maintained and and
has not been volatile like for example
the president's approach to Intel and
Lip Bhutan.
>> There has been one issue that the
president has done in terms of Nvidia
that hasn't been welcome and I'm
wondering Ed is it even happening in
reality. What's going on with that 15%
tax when it comes to certain chips for
export licenses? Yeah, the latest on it
is actually quite dated, but I I
interviewed the CFO last in August when
they had their their last earnings and
her point was pretty dry and
straightforward. I'm the chief financial
officer of this company and I have to
comply with Sarbain Oxley rules and
other audit and compliance rules. And
right now, per that conversation in
August, which I appreciate was some time
ago, they didn't see a mechanism that
allowed for a publicly traded company in
America to share revenue with the United
States. And I haven't seen anything
since then. Um, but again, one thing is
certainly true in the technology sector
in this administration. When the
president says that he's going to do
something, he moves quite quickly and it
happens. Um there's just not an
understanding on the codified base in
which they can do that.
>> Ed, appreciate the update. Looking
forward to your coverage of the event a
little bit later in the nation's capital
in Washington DC. Bloomberg's Ed Ledllo
there. Some breaking news just moments
ago from ADP. Mike McKe's running to the
studio to break it down for us. Mike
McKe, some weekly data maybe. Yeah, all
of a sudden we have some ADP data. ADP
now says it's going to put out a weekly
report on payrolls and still do the
monthly report. uh their first report
shows 14,250
jobs on average during the four weeks
ended October 11th. Now, I'm not sure
how much that tells us because of
includes two weeks of September, which
would fall into the September report. Uh
two weeks so far of uh October, and that
would essentially mean 28,000 jobs at
that point. But uh we'll have to wait
and see what it means over the long run.
They're also going to release their pay
estimates on a weekly basis. This may
help fill some of the gap that's been
caused by the government shutdown and
the lack of BLS data, but again ADP, we
don't know all of their uh methodology,
so we don't know how accurate this is
going to be. It doesn't usually match up
with what the government reports on its
monthly basis.
>> Mike, any relationship between this news
and the news around the Federal Reserve
and ADP in the last week?
>> We don't know. ADP has been very closed
mouth about it. They don't want to talk
about it. We do know that they stopped
providing data to the Fed. Uh the Fed
has been getting it for years and years
and raw data and adjusting it their own
way for their own models. We don't know
why they stopped. But uh at this point
this seems to be either a response to
that in part and a response to the lack
of government data in part. But uh it is
something to work with I suppose.
>> Mike, [music] we'll take it. I'll catch
up with you in a minute. More to
discuss, no doubt. Up next on the
program, the former Dallas Fed President
Robert Kaplan with a key Fed rate
decision just around the corner. Plus,
Danny has some morning movers for you.
UPS surging on stunning profit
expectations. That stock is up by more
than 12%.
[music]
The oven about 60 minutes away. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 futures positive
by a tenth of 1%. Likewise on the
NASDAQ, a 3-day [music] winning run, the
biggest 3-day rally going back to May.
We caught up with Wells Fargo just
moments ago, looking for 7,100 into year
end, calling for what they called an
everything rally. [music] That's the
stock market this morning. Let's get you
some single names, some morning moves
with Danny. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Some rallying happening here
too in the single names. And it really
is, as Ed Lllo was talking about. You
announced a partnership with OpenAI and
your shares go higher. It's PayPal and
Adobe this morning whose CEO was
speaking to Ed Ledllo saying our shares
are undervalued announcing a partnership
with OpenAI and Google AI that their
tools would be incorporated [music] into
Photoshop. So those shares moving higher
by 2%. We also heard from SoFi this
morning earnings from the financial
services company. Their estimate for
users for the full year is now 3.5
million. Before it was 3 million. That's
an upgrade there. Also for the third
quarter, they said they had record
number of users, record revenue, and
record new products on their platform.
So those shares up just over 4%.
Finally, the big gainer this morning is
UPS. I I should mention it's down 25%
year to date. So that shows you where
expectations were heading into their
earnings, but it was their profitability
expectations for the year that beat
basically all of Wall Street. What are
they doing? [music] They are cutting
costs and they are laying off people. In
fact, their outlook for how many people
they're going to lay off is 70% higher
than the estimate that they gave before.
So those shares jumping 12%. John
[music]
>> Danny, thank you. Looking forward to the
program in about 29 minutes time going
into the opening bell 59 minutes away.
As we countd down to the Federal Reserve
decision, the October FC meeting,
two-day meeting, kicks off a little bit
later on this morning. [music] The
decision just around the corner.
Bloomberg's Mike McKe has more. And
maybe Mike, an update on a sprinkle of
economic data on a weekly basis.
>> Yeah, we got this new uh report from
ADP. They announced this morning that
they are launching a four-week moving
average every week of how many jobs have
been created according to their
payrolls. The number they come up with
for the four weeks ending October 11th.
So, this will be a week uh delayed is
14,250,
which would suggest very sluggish
hiring, although that includes two weeks
of September. So, we have to wait till
they get farther along to get a monthly
picture for October. But it would
justify where the Fed is, at least
according to the Fed, worrying about the
idea of employment and what that means
for the economy. So we do expect a 25
basis point rate cut tomorrow. That's
kind of been baked into the markets. So
then the question becomes, do we get a
lot of dissents? And if you're looking
for descents, you could have them on
both sides to cut more or to hold. We're
looking for we're looking for any
guidance for what they might do in
December. Although that's going to be a
tough order for uh Chair Powell because
they don't know, they don't have the
data right now. So I don't think you can
uh bet on a December rate cut
necessarily. And then uh what's the
future of QT? This is something that has
come up in the last couple of weeks,
especially last week when uh Chair
Powell mentioned it in his speech that
they're coming to the end. the total
size of the balance sheet has shrunk
significantly. Although it's never going
back to where it was uh before the
pandemic in part because that's the
balance sheet and it includes currency
and things like that. Total Treasury
securities now below $3 billion. Uh the
future of QT is a debate on Wall Street
and we're getting people on both sides.
The Bank of America folks representing a
number of uh the Wall Street firms say
there's a very small echo of 2019 in
what we're seeing now in money markets.
The Fed overdrained cash and likely
knows it. In other words, they've got to
stop now because we're going to start to
see a 2019 reaction in the money
markets. Uh the folks at Morgan Stanley
say they don't see the same problem that
it's a different kind of problem in
terms of liquidity. uh and they don't
think funding markets are implying signs
of liquidity shortups. So they think the
Fed may keep going for a little bit
longer. All this to be determined and
we'll find out 2 pm Wall Street time
tomorrow afternoon. Looking forward to
your coverage. Mike McKe in the room
with Chairman Pal tomorrow afternoon at
2 p.m. Eastern time. The decision of
course 30 minutes later the news
conference. Sticking with that looming
interest rate cut down in Washington DC.
I'm pleased to say that joining us now
in the studio here in New York the
former Dallas Fed President Robert
Kaplan now with Goldman Sachs. still
used to calling you Mr. President. We'll
go with Robert this morning. How are
you, sir?
>> Good to see you.
>> It's good to see you. Let's talk about
the data if we can. You're in a position
now where you've got a ton of data
yourself. What's it like at the Federal
Reserve? Just this idea of flying blind
without having that official data. What
does that mean?
>> Uh
on the margin, they can still use uh
private sources and they can talk to
businesses. Uh the sense is that hiring
is sluggish. I think you hear that from
business. You also hear from business,
we're not we're we may be belt
tightening, but we're not firing
significantly either. And so the reason
the unemployment rate's not going up is
because supply of labor is flat to down.
And that's that's that's so far what the
data says and what anecdotes say. I
think it would be helpful to the Fed to
start getting more of the formal data
just to reinforce uh their views,
particularly as they get closer to
neutral. If you're above neutral, if
you're still restrictive, I it it gets
more of a urgent need as you get closer
to neutral, which I think neutral is in
the range of 3 and a half, 3 and 3/4.
They're getting closer.
>> You think we're pretty close based on
that estimate?
>> I do.
>> There's a range of estimates on the
FOMC. There always is. What's
interesting to me is to see this step
down in payrolls growth without seeing
that real step up in unemployment. Do
you think there's evidence that Slack
has increased? So, how would you anchor
your view around the labor market right
now on payrolls or around a pretty
stable unemployment rate?
>> So, here's what here's what we're seeing
out there. Uh, there are college
graduates are having hard time finding
jobs. Hiring is less. However, also talk
to businesses. Construction and other
industries where they've got a large
number of own unfilled positions. So,
there's a mismatch issue. So the part I
think I'd be trying to figure out if I'm
my former job, is this a cyclical
slowing or is a lot of this a matching
issue that over the next year or two
will get fixed by better matching? And
right now I think the jury's out. It
looks like some cyclical slowing. That's
why the Fed is cutting. But but I think
there's a point at which they're going
to need to need to keep retesting that
thesis.
>> Based on your estimate of neutral, it
implies that you don't think we're that
restrictive right now. And therefore,
that's right,
>> it would suggest that you don't think
much of this is cyclical.
>> Yeah. And the reason, by the way, for
the debate about neutral, again, when
most people say the long run neutral
rate is 2 and 3/4, they're assuming a 2%
inflation rate. But inflation is not 2%
right now. It's 2 and 3/4 to three. I
still think the real Fed funds rate
that's neutral is about three quarters.
And that's why I say three and a half,
three and three/4ers. The issue is if
inflation is still 7,500 basis points
over target, you want to really
scrutinize what's going on in the labor
market because do you really want to get
to neutral with inflation this much
above target? I think right now they're
they're they're trading this off and
saying listen, we've got to guard
against a weakening in labor. I I would
agree with that and I would cut in
October, too. But beyond October, even
though the market thinks it's a done
deal for December, in my mind, if I were
in my former job, I'd really want to be
vigilant about it.
>> Do you think we're that close to
questioning the credibility of this
pursuit of 2% inflation at the Federal
Reserve?
>> I don't I don't think so. And and here's
why. Yes, we've been above target now
for three or four years. Having said
that, uh China over capacity,
disinflationary, AI over the horizon,
disinflationary. And the reason this
matters, there's 85 million Americans
roughly who make 50 or 55 grand a year
or less, have lost 25% purchasing
percent purchasing power, are struggling
to make ends meet. And for them,
inflation above target is like a
regressive tax. And so that that's why I
think it's still important to get in the
neighborhood of two. Doesn't have to be
exactly two, but in the neighborhood of
it.
>> Chinese overcapacity, disinflationary
now for the rest of the world. Maybe not
for America. The wars have gone up. How
does that change the story?
>> Well, so the Fed over the last couple of
years has benefited from the fact
service sector inflation's been running
in the mid-3s, but goods have been
disinflating, fueled heavily by China.
The tariff episode has stalled that, at
least for us. But over the horizon, once
the tariff situation settles down, I
still think that disinflation may start
to seep in. But we've interrupted it.
And that's why you see overall inflation
kind of just stuck and going sideways.
>> How do you view the tariff story in ter
terms of its impact on goods?
>> Well, so in the near term, tariffs, I
can tell you from businesses I talked to
have have slowed growth. They may spur
growth over the long run if it if it
spurs more investment, but in the short
run uh it it it slows growth. It comes
out of margin. And for goods, many
companies I talk to uh are taking it in
margin because making a price increase
decision is a big strategic. They're not
prepared to do that. So, they're going
to accept lower margins. They're going
to do some belt tightening. Over the
horizon though, the next year or two,
most companies also I talked to want to
get some of that margin loss back and
price when they can, but for the moment,
uh uh I I think they're taking a lot of
it out of margin. How are companies
you're talking to thinking about AIPA
and the fact that the tariffs they're
paying that might actually get refunded
for?
>> I think the assumption by businesses and
I would guess other countries is if this
authorization
doesn't stand up in the courts, the
administration will find other
authorizations. So I think people are
pres pro proceeding on the assumption
these are going to continue.
>> You're traveling the world speaking to
businesses all around the planet across
several geographies. We were just
talking you'd recently back from Brazil.
You're a very welltraveled man at the
moment. You don't have that sort of
regional Fed bias anymore. Have you ever
had one? You're not just US- ccentric
now. Are you hopeful for the global
economy based on what you're seeing?
>> Listen, there there are two or three
tailwinds for the global economy. One,
AI, data center, power boom has the
promise to improve productivity growth
globally.
And one of the big problems around the
world is aging populations, not
everywhere, and overlever. If we can get
productivity growth higher, that's
great. In the US, we've got regulatory
relief coming. Maybe that'll spread to
other parts of the world, and we've got
tax incentives coming. And so, uh,
there's a lot of optimism. However, I
would say delobalization
uh, makes it harder for many countries
outside the United States to solve some
of the problems that they're facing. And
it likely raises costs.
>> Robert, it's good to see you. It always
is. Should do this more often. Thank
you, sir. Robert Kaplan, the former
Dallas Fed president, now of course vice
chair over at Goldman Sachs. Let's give
you an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Let's
cross over to Yahara for more. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. ADP is launching a new weekly
release of its preliminary US jobs
estimate. [music] The latest data shows
an average gain of 14,250
private sector jobs over the four weeks
ending October 11th. [music] Weekly
estimates will be released every Tuesday
starting today, drawn from payroll data
from over 26 million private [music]
sector workers.
Meanwhile, a Paramount Sky Dance will
begin a major round of layoffs tomorrow
with [music] a thousand jobs job cuts.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg, a
second round of cuts is also expected
later with a total number previously
reported at about 2,000. [music]
Paramount Skyance was created through a
merger back in August and its new
management is moving quickly to cut
costs and restructure.
And President Trump's social media
company is getting into [music] the
booming prediction markets business.
Trump Media and technology group is
planning to make prediction contracts
available on [music] its truth social
network where users can bet on events
from political elections to inflation
rate changes. [music]
The service called Truth Predict will
also feature bets on commodity prices
and events across all major sports
leagues. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John [music]
>> Yahara, thank you. Up next, we'll say
you well for the day ahead. Plus, we'll
catch up with the CEO of JP Morgan Asset
and Wealth Management, Mary Odos. Mary
just around the corner.
Live from New York City. Welcome back to
the program. The opening bell about 45
minutes away. Equity futures positive by
0.1% on the NASDAQ 100 up by 0.2. That's
the story on Wall Street. For a special
guest, let's head over to Riyad, Saudi
Arabia. We're joined now by Arana who
leads our coverage in the region,
Bloomberg's Jamaa Basete who's standing
by with more. Hey Jamanna.
>> Hi guys. Yeah, that's that's right.
Coming to you live from Riad. Really
happy to say that. Joining me right now
is JP Morgan, CEO of asset management
and wealth management. Mary Erdos, good
to good to have you here with us this.
It's been a really busy couple of days
and actually we're only day one of FII.
Uh but JP Morgan, we're here on Sunday.
you were celebrating your 90y year
anniversary in Saudi Arabia and I've got
to say for those who are unfamiliar with
Saudi Arabian history that's even before
oil was discovered. Yeah, absolutely.
I'm so happy to be here with you. Uh and
if you all could only see the the crowds
of people um that are here, 9,000
delegates here in Riad uh for the FI.
It's a really exciting time period, but
it's even more exciting for JP Morgan
90th year anniversary celebration uh
with all of the ministers and uh
important heads of min of uh different
sectors and and the like. But it is
incredible to think that 90 years ago,
we were facilitating gold payments and
moving it here into the region before
oil was even discovered. and the journey
that we've been on uh with all of our
partners here. Uh it was great to see at
the JP Morgan event that we had on
Sunday night to celebrate, so many of
the ministers said, "I was trained by
the JP Morgan credit training program
back in the day." Uh and so we're we're
very proud of that and our partnership
that we've had for so many years.
>> Quite the evolution for both JP Morgan
and of course for the country as well.
You know, now we talk about
diversification away from oil. Uh but
you sensed an opportunity 90 years ago.
Now there are so many banks coming to
the region, it's becoming a lot more
competitive. How do you hold on to your
market share and compete versus all of
the other international banks that want
to gain this market share?
>> It's uh it's competitive everywhere in
the world. Um and it's increasingly
competitive here. We're very proud. We
have 430 people in the region. We just
uh this week named Riad as our global
headquarters for the region here. So
we're very excited about what that means
uh for the opportunity. But, you know,
we facilitate inbound and outbound uh
payments, investments, um all of the
things that make the the world go round
and we work very hard and it takes very
long-term time to make these
partnerships uh and develop the trust
and so to think about not just one
industry but many industries uh to go
through hiccups to ride through good
times and bad times and you know that's
what makes these relationships and so
and
>> and as these countries have matured and
grown very quickly what you have seen is
an accumulation of wealth. So wealth
management also a big focus for many
banks out here and you have a huge
influx as well of ultra high net worth
individuals that again are adding to
this this cycle. Would you say that um
wealth management investment priorities
in this part of the world are different
from other juris
bias. We can't get away from it
depending on where we live. Um but
everybody sees the opportunities and if
you just show up at FII for a couple of
days all the opportunities are here.
every major asset manager is here.
Everyone's talking about the
opportunities. Many discussions on AI as
you know um but everything from from uh
energy to onshoring, reshoring, uh
manufacturing and and uh and all the
different opportunities that exist.
>> Yeah. Uh let me ask you about, you know,
some signals that are coming through
from the US economy. Obviously, we have
the Fed meeting coming up tomorrow.
They're widely anticipated to cut
interest rates, but you know, CEO Jamie
Diamond a couple of weeks ago was
talking about uh there being potentially
other cockroaches in the credit market,
something to be alert to. How do you see
the signals coming through right now?
Yes. Well, I mean, we stress test the
portfolio uh of investments that we make
with our own balance sheet uh as well as
our clients balance sheets each and
every day. And you have to do that
especially when you get to top E levels
in all of these markets of which we've
had. we haven't had uh a correction in a
long time. We haven't had a recession in
a long time. And so the closer you get
to that time period, nobody knows when
it is. You have to make sure that the
clients and and the balance sheet of
whether it's an individual, an
institution, a sovereign wealth fund or
our own bank uh is is able to sustain
that. And so when we stress test that,
we look for, you know, what are the
little even micro signs of what might be
going wrong. And that's that's our job
that, you know, JP Morgan prides itself
on Fortress balance sheet. We want to be
there in good times and bad for our
clients. And so we need to make sure
that we're able to have the cash ability
to help clients as they as they ride
through those times. And there aren't
major signs, but you're seeing, you
know, little pockets of it. You see a
little amendment extend on on credit
terms and the like. And so we're
watching it and we're watching it very
closely.
>> Yeah. How are you feeling about 2026?
Again, I started this off saying the Fed
are about to cut interest rates again.
uh how do you see the momentum going in
to to 2026 because most recent results
obviously quite positive. Can that
momentum continue?
>> Yes, I mean we should be seeing more
inflation than we are. Uh there's a lot
of things remilitarization should be
inflationary. Tariffs should be
inflationary. Uh it hasn't cut through
the system as much uh as you would have
thought. And so you're getting interest
rate cuts. That's very bullish for the
economy. You're getting a lot of
reinvestment. That's very bullish for
the economy. And so I think 2026 is
setting it itself up to be another great
year. It's just you have to pick your
pockets. You have to risk manage. You
have to make sure that the things that
have ridden up so well, have you
rightsized them? Have you trimmed them
to be in the in the uh in the pocket of
the portfolio that they should be?
>> So you mentioned artificial intelligence
earlier. do want to ask you whether you
are actually seeing a return on
investment by by introducing AI uh into
your operations and then also you know
whether actually there's scope for AI to
replace people's jobs especially you
know junior and at analyst level. Yeah,
you know, I mean, AI is a lot of people
have said, "Is there an AI bubble?" I
said, "That's like asking if there's a
computer bubble." It's not really a
thing. AI is a new way of working and
it's a really important factor in all
investments that people make in all
companies and especially JP Morgan. You
know, we spend a lot of time on it. As
you know, we spend $18 billion on
technology a year. Uh, and we're on the
forefront of many things, whether it's
AI, quantum computing, and the like. But
for us, it's about deploying it in a way
that you rethink how you do things in
the organization. Can you do it faster,
better, cheaper, quicker, smarter? Can
you catch the errors? Can you protect
the clients? Can you make sure that the
cyber defenses are are even stronger
than they would be? But if you look at
S&P 500 companies, only about 10% of
them say that they actually have AI in
their products and services out there.
And if you look at the mentions of AI
when you talk about quarterly earnings
or even just our own investment uh
managers going and meeting for the
different management teams out there
around the world and all the companies
it's only about 40 to 50% of
international companies. The good news
is it's even higher in the US about 70%.
And that will trickle through and it's
just like how we see it in our own
company. You start with fixing the no
joy. You know, get rid of all the no joy
work. Try to get AI to optimize those
kind of things. And then over time you
realize you have to stop the way you're
doing all things and rethink entire
processes and procedures. Why am I
optimizing 10 steps when I maybe should
have just gone from step one to step 10
and removed everything in between?
>> Ultimately, do you see AI as a massive
cost deflator? Is that how you're
thinking about it from a business
perspective? It could it could be a
costlator, but it should be just a great
efficiency gain. And the the better you
can do things and the better products
and services and they're tailored just
to you. I know exactly what you want on
which day, what you've been waiting for,
what you're nervous about, and how do I
customize that and then how do I do that
at scale? And when I can do that with AI
and if I have curious talent, that's all
you need is curiosity and a little AI
and you can go very far in making the
right products and services for the
clients of the future.
>> Yeah. Ultimately though, do you see some
of these um jobs as I mentioned those
entry- level jobs being replaced by AI?
>> Not at all. Somebody uh earlier today
said yes, a lot of jobs will be
replaced. I totally disagree with that.
I think the jobs that will be replaced
are those for the people that are not
curious, for the people that are not
using AI, for the people that don't say,
"How do I rethink this? How do I dig in
deeper?" And so, every time you get to
think about using the technology that's
at your fingertips and figuring out, you
know, how many times did you mention
something last week when I was watching
you uh on late night Bloomberg TV, which
I do every night of my life, and it's a
great and it's a great joy to to hear
all the things that you're covering. and
you say to yourself,"Well, if I could
just plug that in if and and if I could
have it summarize what you're saying
every night for me and I could think
about how I'm going [clears throat] to
apply that and then I take those vast
streams of information. That's all you
need. You need curiosity and you need
great people to do it." So, I don't
think it's a job destroyer for those
kind of people. I think it's a job
destroyer for the people that are
waiting and fearful that it is going to
take over their job.
>> Mary, thank you so much. Also, it's good
to know that I have at least one viewer
for our Bloomberg Horizon show. John,
I'll toss it back to you.
>> Jamanna, thank you. We want them to tune
in and watch, not just summarize what
someone might have heard overnight.
Anyway, Jamanna, thank you very much.
Appreciate it. As we count you down to
the opening bow, here's your trading
diary for the week ahead at 12:00 p.m.
Eastern time. Nvidia CEO Jensen Wang
speaking at Nvidia's tech conference on
Wednesday. The Fed's interest rate
decision and news conference with
Chairman Pal, plus earnings from
Microsoft Alphabet Meta. Thursday,
President [music] Trump and the Chinese
leader Xi Jinping meeting in South
Korea. Plus, we get more tech earnings
from Apple and Amazon and an ECB rate
decision is just around the corner, too.
Coming up tomorrow, here's the lineup
for you. Julian Emanuel of EverO, Gagi
Chowry of Black Rockck, Alicia Lavine of
BMY Wealth, Jay Goldberg of Sapport. Why
is Jay interesting? The only cell
[music] on Nvidia. 73 buys, six holds,
one single cell, and it belongs to that
man right there. And video is going to
be important tomorrow. You know why?
After Jensen [music] Wang speaks in
Washington DC, he's going to meet with
the president of the United States
before the president sits down with she.
>> A very, very busy week begins tomorrow
with an interest rate decision from the
Federal Reserve and a lot of tech
earnings. More than $10 trillion in
market cap reporting from New York City
this morning. Good morning. Thank you
for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.